In 8 days, we are going to win the Great State of Michigan and we are going to win back the White House.
Let me start today by making a very important promise. When we win on November 8th, I am going to bring back your jobs. The long nightmare of jobs leaving Michigan will be coming to an end. We will make Michigan the economic envy of the world once again.
The political class in Washington has betrayed you. They've uprooted your jobs, and your communities, and shipped your wealth all over the world. They put new skyscrapers up in Beijing while your factories in Michigan crumbled.
I will end the theft of American prosperity. I will fight for every last Michigan job.
Because, when we win, it's going to be America First.
So you have to make sure you get in your absentee ballots, and to get to the polls on November 8th. You have to vote. Vote with all of your heart and soul. Show the whole world how much you love Michigan, and how much you love America, by voting to take back the jobs that have been stolen from you. I'm asking for the vote of Republicans, Democrats, Independents and First-Time voters who want great jobs, safe neighborhoods, and a government that works for the people.
I'm asking you to believe in America once again.
But to bring back your jobs, we must also immediately repeal and replace Obamacare.
It's just been announced that Michigan residents are going to experience crushing double-digit premium hikes.
In Minnesota, where the premium increase will be close to 60 percent, the Democratic Governor has said "the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable."
Hillary Clinton wants to double-down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive – in fact, much more expensive. I'm asking for your vote so we can replace Obamacare and save healthcare for every family in Michigan.
Real change also means restoring honesty to our government.
As you know, the FBI has reopened its investigation into Hillary Clinton and has discovered another 650,000 emails. Hillary lied under oath when she said she turned over all of her work-related emails – just one more lie out of so many.
This is the biggest scandal since Watergate. Hillary wants to blame everyone else for her mounting legal troubles, but she has brought this all onto herself. Hillary is the one who set-up an illegal private email server in a closet to shield her criminal activity.
Hillary is the one who engaged in a corrupt Pay-For-Play scheme at the State Department – and now there are 5 FBI probes into the Clinton Foundation and their pay-for-play activities. Hillary is the one who sent and received classified information on an insecure server, putting the safety of the American people under threat.
Hillary is the one who lied to Congress under oath. Hillary is the one who lied to the FBI. Hillary is the one who made 13 phones disappear. Hillary is the one who destroyed 33,000 emails. Hillary is the one who broke the law over and over and over again. We can be sure that what is in those emails is absolutely devastating.
Hillary is not the victim – the American people are the victims of this corrupt system in every way, and this is your one chance to change it.
Hillary is likely to be under investigation for a very long time. One of her longtime supporters, a top Democratic Pollster, Doug Schoen, is now totally withdrawing his support. He wrote an article entitled "I'm a Democrat, I worked for Bill Clinton, but I can't vote for Hillary."