Thank you. I am so thrilled to be back in Washington.
Together, we are going to work hard over the next 70 days and we are going to win this state – and we are going to win the White House.
It's going to be a victory for the people. A victory for the everyday citizen whose voice hasn't been heard.
It will be a win for the voters – not the pundits, not the journalists, not the lobbyists, not the global special interests funding my opponent's campaign.
This is going to be YOUR victory.
We are going to create the New American Future our children deserve.
In this new future, millions of workers on the sidelines will be returned to the workforce.
Crumbling roads, bridges and airports will be replaced with the infrastructure our country needs and deserves.
Families trapped in welfare will be provided with jobs and opportunity.
Government will become lean, effective, responsible – and honest.
Our border will be protected, and our children will be safe.
We will rebuild our inner cities, and provide safety and peace to all of our citizens.
American values and culture will be cherished and celebrated once again.
But to achieve this future, we must break free from the bitter failures of the past – and reject the same insiders telling us the same old lies.
One area where honesty is badly needed is on the subject of economic and living conditions for African-American citizens in the United States.
Millions of African-Americans in this country have succeeded greatly, and their contributions to every area of our life – now and throughout our history – should be celebrated and cherished. This includes the amazing achievements in art, science, sport, music, medicine, business and so much else. This includes millions of African-American entrepreneurs, innovators and the millions of African-American workers in our middle class.
But we must also talk about those who have been left behind, the millions suffering in disastrous conditions in so many of our inner cities – and neighborhoods afflicted by poverty, drugs, and violence.
No group in America has been more harmed by Hillary Clinton's policies than African-Americans.
There is no better evidence of this fact than Hillary Clinton's immigration policy, which brings in illegal immigrants and refugees to take jobs from hardworking African-American and Hispanic citizens.
Instead of providing free healthcare and jobs to millions of refugees from around the world, we should rebuild our inner cities and provide jobs to struggling Americans.
Tonight, I am asking for the vote of every African-American and Hispanic citizen in this country who wants a better future.
The inner cities of our country have been run by the Democratic Party for fifty, sixty, seventy years.
These Democratic policies – the policies of Hillary Clinton – have produced only poverty, joblessness, failing schools, broken homes, and rising crime.
Nearly 4 in 10 African-American children live in poverty, including 45% of children under the age of six. 58% of African-American youth are not working. Meanwhile, another 2 million Hispanic-Americans have been added to the ranks of those in poverty since 2009.
In Detroit, half of all its residents do not work. In Milwaukee, almost 4 in 10 African-American men between the ages of 24-54 do not have a job.
Here, in the state of Washington, 65% of Latino children and 60% of African-American children live in low-income households.
Chicago just had the most violent month in 20 years. More than 2,800 have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year.
It breaks our hearts.
We cannot let this violence continue. It must be ended.
Under A Trump Administration, it will be ended.
It will be my priority to work with communities, local police, state police and federal law enforcement to dismantle the gangs and to liberate our citizens from violence and poverty and fear. I will appoint the best judges and prosecutors and federal investigators who will make this their personal mission.
There is one thing which can no longer be denied: if you keep voting for the same people, you will keep getting the same results. To those suffering, I say: what do you have to lose by voting for Donald Trump? I will fix it. I will fight for you as no one ever has before.
Let me also tell you what you have to gain: jobs, opportunity, security, and safety.
This means so much to me.
I believe every child in this country – in Detroit, in Baltimore, in Chicago – has the right to live out their lives in safety and peace.
In the Wall Street Journal, Heather Mac Donald of the Manhattan Institute just wrote an important article about the soaring crime in our inner cities, and the responsibility of Democratic politicians for creating this problem.
The article is called: "Black Lives Matter to Donald Trump." McDonald writes that "Mr. Trump's call to restore law and order recognizes the right of inner-city residents to enjoy the same freedom from fear that the rest of America now takes for granted."
Freedom from violence is one of the great civil rights issues of our time. So too is the issue of school choice.
We will fight for the right of parents to send their kids to the school that they believe gives their kids the best shot at success.
I will not accept a future in which children of any color in this country are not fully included in the American Dream. Our whole country loses when we leave millions of talented, aspiring Americans on the sidelines. We want to give everyone a chance to contribute their full talents to our economy and our country.