Thank you. It is great to be here in the city of Henderson, in the beautiful state of Nevada – a state where I have so many great friends and employees.
In 34 days, we are going to win this state, we are going to win the White House.
How many of you watched the Vice Presidential Debate last night?
Mike did such an incredible job. I would argue that Mike had the single most decisive victory in the history of Vice Presidential debates.
Last night America also got a firsthand look at my judgement and the judgement of my opponent. Our first Presidential decision was the selection of our running mates, and all of America saw that I made the right choice.
While Mike laid out big and bold solutions for America, his opponent talked only of small and petty distractions.
Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years, and hasn't fixed anything. In fact, she's just made things worse – she failed upstate New York, promising to create 200,000 jobs, but manufacturing is down almost 40 percent. She failed overseas, producing only death and destruction – she unleashed ISIS, destabilized Iraq, Syria and Libya, and put Iran on the path to nuclear weapons.
At home, Hillary Clinton failed Latinos and African-Americans, producing only more poverty in the inner cities.
She is merely the vessel for the global special interests bleeding this country dry.
I am running to represent Americans – and we are going to make America Rich again.
I am going to end illegal immigration, stop the massive inflow of refugees, keep jobs from pouring out of our country, renegotiate our disastrous trade deals, and massively reduce taxes and regulations on our workers and our small businesses.
My economic agenda is very simple: jobs, jobs, jobs.
The problems we face as a country are immense, and it is going to take bold action to turn things around.
Right now, we owe $20 trillion in debt. It doubled under President Obama.
Our infrastructure is like that of a third-world country.
The homicide rate last year experienced the biggest single-year increase in 45 years.
Our police are under-funded, under-staffed, and under-supported – and Hillary Clinton basically accuses our police of all being racist.
Our border is wide open, and drugs and criminal cartels are pouring into the country.
Thousands of refugees are being admitted, with no way to screen them, and are instantly made eligible for welfare and free healthcare – even as our own Veterans die waiting for the medical care they need.
Our annual trade deficit with the world is nearly $800 billion a year.
The federal budget is a disaster. Our State Department, mostly under the watch of Hillary Clinton, misplaced or lost $6 billion in taxpayer funds.
We have the worst so-called recovery since the Great Depression.
We are a nation divided, with race riots in the streets.
Our college students graduate, loaded with debt, only to discover they can't find jobs – or certainly not the jobs they want.
Our allies aren't paying their fair share, foreign countries like Russia and China do not respect us, and our taxpaying citizens send troops and foreign aid all over the world even as their own cities can't provide the most basic services.
America needs a turnaround.
America needs a comeback.
America needs a change.
That is why I am running.
On November 8th, we are going to show the whole world that America is back – bigger, and better, and stronger than ever before.
First, we are going to repeal and replace Obamacare.
President Obama said if you like your doctor you can keep your doctor.
That was a lie.
He promised his plan would reduce premiums by $2,500 dollars. Instead, they surged $5,000.
Another lie.
Now, of all people, President Bill Clinton has come out and told the truth about Obamacare.
Two days ago, Bill Clinton torched President Obama's signature legislation. Remember, Hillary Clinton called Obamacare "one of the greatest accomplishments of President Obama, of the Democratic Party, and of our country."
Bill has a different view. Here is what bill said:
He just said it's a "crazy system," and that "it's the craziest thing in the world."