Thank you.
In 22 days, we are going to win the state of Wisconsin and we are going to win the White House.
Early voting is underway, so make sure to send in your absentee ballots.
Together, we are going to deliver real change that puts America First.
We are going to renegotiate our terrible trade deals, end illegal immigration, stop the massive inflow of refugees, reduce surging crime, cut taxes and regulations, lift the restrictions on American energy, end common core, and repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare.
Your jobs will come back under a Trump Administration. Your incomes will go up under a Trump Administration. Your taxes will go way down under a Trump Administration. Your companies won't be leaving Wisconsin under a Trump Administration.
We are also going to end government corruption.
Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to run for President.
Newly-released FBI documents made public today reveal just how deep the corruption goes. The under-Secretary of State, Patrick Kennedy, pressured the FBI to un-classify emails from Hillary's illegal server. In other words, the State Department was trying to cover-up Hillary's crime of sending classified information on a server our enemies could easily access by trying to reverse the classification.
This is a criminal conspiracy – a conspiracy that included Hillary's deleting and bleaching of 33,000 emails, the disappearance of 13 phones, 2 boxes of email evidence gone missing, and the destruction of laptops in a secret deal with the FBI.
Remember, also, that Hillary lied under oath to Congress saying she had never sent or received classified information on her insecure sever, and pretended not to know that the letter "C" meant confidential information that was classified. Hillary then told the FBI she couldn't remember 39 times, and then, in written testimony last week under oath, said she couldn't remember another 21 times.
We are witnessing a criminal enterprise that has turned our government into a vehicle for the Clinton's personal profit at your expense.
But it gets even worse.
The FBI documents show that Under-Secretary of State Patrick Kennedy made the request for altering classification as part of a "quid pro quo." This is felony corruption. Under-Secretary Kennedy needs to resign.
Clinton cronies have sacrificed your security, your family's safety, and your country's safety as though it meant nothing at all.
This is magnitudes worse than Watergate. And we're going to put an end to it on November 8th.
But there's still more. Another series of emails shows top officials in the Clinton campaign scheming to take massive sums of money from foreign lobbyists. One of the emails from a top Hillary official said, quote, "take the money!!" with two exclamation points. This is money bundled by people registered as lobbyists on behalf of foreign governments.
Remember, we are competing in a rigged election – the media is trying to rig the election by giving credence to false stories that have no validity and making it front page news, only to poison the minds of the American voters. The media is an extension of the Clinton Campaign, as WikiLeaks proved – Hillary even got the questions and answers in advance of a major debate.
A new report from the Center for Public Integrity shows that 96% of so-called journalists and reporters who donated this cycle gave their money to Hillary Clinton. They even want to try and rig the election at the polling booths, where so many cities are corrupt and voter fraud is all too common.
The following comes straight from Pew Research.