Omni Shoreham HotelWashington, D.C.
10:22 A.M. EDT
Thank you very much, Tony.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  (Applause.)
Thank you very much.  You know, I’ve been here before.  (Laughter.)  You do know that.  Before the big day on November 8th, I was here.  I want to thank Mark Meadows and all of the folks that have really made this possible.  And, Tony, tremendous guy.
We have some incredible people that we love and that we’re involved with.  So we all know that.  And I’m being followed by Mr. Bennett — you know that, right?  And I’ve been watching him say nice things about me before I knew him.  Those are the ones I like — (laughter) — where they speak well of you before you know them.  Right?
But I really want to thank everybody, and, Tony, for your extraordinary leadership of this organization.  And I want to thank, also, Lawana, for your dedication to the faith community and to our nation.  Work so hard.
It’s great to be back here with so many friends at the 2017 Values Voter Summit, and we know what that means.  (Applause.)  We know what that means.  America is a nation of believers, and together we are strengthened and sustained by the power of prayer.  (Applause.)
As we gather for this tremendous event, our hearts remain sad and heavy for the victims of the horrific mass murder last week in Las Vegas.  It was an act of pure evil.
But in the wake of such horror, we also witnessed the true character of our nation.  A mother laid on top of her daughter to shield her from gunfire.  A husband died to protect his beloved wife.  Strangers rescued strangers, police officers — and you saw that, all of those incredible police officers, how brave they were, how great they were running into fire.  (Applause.)  And first responders, they rushed right into danger.
He’s saying — they’re saying no.  Lawana is saying no.  That’s means no.  (Laughter.)
So I’m here to thank you for your support and to share with you how we are delivering on that promise, defending our shared values, and in so doing, how we are renewing the America we love.
In the last 10 months, we have followed through on one promise after another.  (Applause.)  I didn’t have a schedule, but if I did have a schedule, I would say we are substantially ahead of schedule.  (Applause.)
Some of those promises are to support and defend the Constitution.  I appointed and confirmed a Supreme Court Justice in the mold of the late, great Justice Antonin Scalia, the newest member of the Supreme Court, Justice Neil Gorsuch.  (Applause.)
To protect the unborn, I have reinstated a policy first put in place by President Ronald Reagan, the Mexico City Policy.  (Applause.)  To protect religious liberty, including protecting groups like this one, I signed a new executive action in a beautiful ceremony at the White House on our National Day of Prayer — (applause) — which day we made official.  (Applause.)
Among many historic steps, the executive order followed through on one of my most important campaign promises to so many of you: to prevent the horrendous Johnson Amendment from interfering with your First Amendment rights.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  We will not allow government workers to censor sermons or target our pastors or our ministers or rabbis.  These are the people we want to hear from, and they’re not going to be silenced any longer.  (Applause.)
Just last week, based on this executive action, the Department of Justice issued a new guidance to all federal agencies to ensure that no religious group is ever targeted under my administration.  It won’t happen.  (Applause.)
We have also taken action to protect the conscience rights of groups like the Little Sisters of the Poor.  You know what they went through.  (Applause.)  What they went through — they were going through hell.  And then all of the sudden they won.  They said, how did that happen?  (Laughter.)
We want to really point out that the Little Sisters of the Poor and other people of faith, they live by a beautiful calling, and we will not let bureaucrats take away that calling or take away their rights.  (Applause.)
We are stopping cold the attacks on Judeo-Christian values.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  And something I’ve said so much during the last two years, but I’ll say it again as we approach the end of the year.  You know, we’re getting near that beautiful Christmas season that people don’t talk about anymore.  (Laughter.)  They don’t use the word “Christmas” because it’s not politically correct.  You go to department stores, and they’ll say, “Happy New Year” and they’ll say other things.  And it will be red, they’ll have it painted, but they don’t say it.  Well, guess what?  We’re saying “Merry Christmas” again.  (Applause.)
And as a Christmas gift to all of our hardworking families, we hope Congress will pass massive tax cuts for the American people.  (Applause.)  That includes increasing the child tax credit and expanding it to eliminate the marriage penalty.  (Applause.)  Because we know that the American family is the true bedrock of American life.  So true.  (Applause.)  This is such an exciting event because we are really working very hard, and hopefully Congress will come through.
You saw what we did yesterday with respect to healthcare.  It’s step by step by step.  (Applause.)  And that was a very big step yesterday.  Another big step was taken the day before yesterday.  And one by one it’s going to come down, and we’re going to have great healthcare in our country.  We’re going to have great healthcare in our country.  (Applause.)  We’re taking a little different route than we had hoped, because getting Congress — they forgot what their pledges were.  (Laughter.)  So we’re going a little different route.  But you know what?  In the end, it’s going to be just as effective, and maybe it will even be better.  (Applause.)
For too long, politicians have tried to centralize the authority among the hands of a small few in our nation’s capital.  Bureaucrats think they can run your lives, overrule your values, meddle in your faith, and tell you how to live, what to say, and how to pray.  But we know that parents, not bureaucrats, know best how to raise their children and create a thriving society.  (Applause.)
We know that faith and prayer, not federal regulation — and, by the way, we are cutting regulations at a clip that nobody has ever seen before.  Nobody.  (Applause.)  In nine months, we have cut more regulation than any President has cut during their term in office.  So we are doing the job.  (Applause.)  And that is one of the major reasons, in addition to the enthusiasm for manufacturing and business and jobs — and the jobs are coming back.
That’s one of the major reasons — regulation, what we’ve done — that the stock market has just hit an all-time historic high.  (Applause.)  That just on the public markets we’ve made, since Election Day, $5.2 trillion in value.  Think of that:  $5.2 trillion.  (Applause.)  And as you’ve seen, the level of enthusiasm is the highest it’s ever been, and we have a 17-year low in unemployment.  So we’re doing, really, some work.  (Applause.)
We know that it’s the family and the church, not government officials, that know best how to create strong and loving communities.  (Applause.)  And above all else, we know this:  In America, we don’t worship government — we worship God.  (Applause.)  Inspired by that conviction, we are returning moral clarity to our view of the world and the many grave challenges we face.
This afternoon, in a little while, I’ll be giving a speech on Iran, a terrorist nation like few others.  And I think you’re going to find it very interesting.  (Applause.)
Yesterday, things happened with Pakistan, and I have openly said Pakistan took tremendous advantage of our country for many years, but we’re starting to have a real relationship with Pakistan and they’re starting to respect us as a nation again, and so are other nations.  They’re starting to respect the United States of America again, and I appreciate that.  (Applause.)  And I want to thank the leaders of Pakistan for what they’ve been doing.
In this administration, we will call evil by its name.  (Applause.)  We stand with our friends and allies, we forge new partnerships in pursuit of peace, and we take decisive action against those who would threaten our people with harm.  (Applause.)  And we will be decisive — because we know that the first duty of government is to serve its citizens.  We are defending our borders, protecting our workers, and enforcing our laws.  You see it every single day like you haven’t seen it in many, many years — if you’ve seen it at all.  (Applause.)
In protecting America’s interests abroad, we will always support our cherished friend and partner, the State of Israel.  (Applause.)  We will confront the dangers that imperil our nation, our allies, and the world, including the threat of radical Islamic terrorism.  (Applause.)
We have made great strides against ISIS — tremendous strides.  I don’t know if you’ve seen what’s going on, but tremendous strides against ISIS.  They never got hit like this before.  (Laughter.)
Stand up.  Stand up.  Let me see — he’s a rough guy.  I can see it.
But they’ve been just ruthless and they’ve ruthlessly slaughtered innocent Christians, along with the vicious killing of innocent Muslims and other religious minorities.  And we’ve made their lives very, very difficult — believe me.  (Applause.)We’ve done more against ISIS in nine months than the previous administration has done during its whole administration — by far, by far.  (Applause.)  And ISIS is now being dealt one defeat after another.  We are confronting rogue regimes from Iran to North Korea, and we are challenging the communist dictatorship of Cuba and the socialist oppression of Venezuela.  And we will not lift the sanctions on these repressive regimes until they restore political and religious freedom for their people.  (Applause.)
All of these bad actors share a common enemy, the one force they cannot stop, the force deep within our souls, and that is the power of hope.  That is why, in addition to our great military might, our enemies truly fear the United States.  Because our people never lose faith, never give in, and always hope for a better tomorrow.
Last week, Melania and I were reminded of this in a powerful way when we traveled to Las Vegas.  We visited a hospital where some of the survivors were recovering from absolutely horrific wounds.  We met a young man named Brady Cook.  He’s 22 and a brand-new police officer.  That night was Brady’s second day in field training — his second day as a policeman, can you believe that?  But when the shooting began, he did not hesitate.  He acted with incredible courage, rushing into the hail of bullets, and he was badly shot in the shoulder.