Roosevelt Room
11:40 A.M. EDT
Good morning.  I’d like to begin by thanking Secretary David Shulkin for the incredible progress that he’s making at the VA — tremendous strides.  Thank you very much, David.  We appreciate it.  The veterans appreciate it, I can tell you that.
Today, I’m pleased to announce another historic breakthrough that will expand VA services to many more patients and veterans.  We will do this through telehealth services.  It’s what it’s called — telehealth services.
We’re expanding the ability of veterans to connect with their VA healthcare team from anywhere using mobile application on the veteran’s own phone or the veteran’s own computer.  This will significantly expand access to care for our veterans, especially for those who need help in the area of mental health, which is a bigger and bigger request — and also in suicide prevention.  It will make a tremendous difference for the veterans in rural locations in particular.
We’re launching the mobile app that will allow VA patients to schedule and change their appointments at VA facilities using their smartphones.  So this is something they were never able to do.  Technology has given us this advantage, but unfortunately we have not taken advantage of that until now.
We’re working tirelessly to keep our promises to our great veterans.  Very important.  And in my campaign and on the campaign trail, the veterans mean so much to me and this administration.  In the past six months, I have signed historic VA accountability legislation.  I have signed legislation to extend and improve the Veterans Choice Program.  We’re starting to really get that to a point where choice is just becoming something that they are extremely happy about, and they’ve wanted it for many, many years.
We’re working to enable seamless care between the Departments of Defense and Veteran Affairs.  We have launched a groundbreaking new website that allows veterans to compare wait times and quality of care at VA facilities and other hospitals.  So we’re actually able to compete our facilities with other hospitals and other VA facilities.  So we’ll really strike a little competitive advantage and I think get people moving even better.
And we have dramatically increased the number of approvals for veterans to see the doctors.  So they are going to have many more doctors of their choice.
These accomplishments are only the beginning.  We will not rest until all of America’s great veterans can receive the care they so richly deserve.  Tremendous progress has been made in a short period of time.  We’ve only been here six months, but tremendous progress has been made.
And I want to ask Dr. Shulkin, perhaps, to give us a little preview of what’s to come.  Thank you.
That’s great.
Thank you, Doctor.  And I just want to thank him, and your skin — I hope you skin is going to be improved.  (Laughter.)  You look pretty good to me, but what do I know?  (Laughter.)
Very good.  You look very healthy to me, I will tell you that.  (Laughter.)  Please make sure your skin is perfect.  (Laughter.)
Thank you very much.  Great technology.  Great to be here.  Thank you.  (Applause.)
We’re going to West Virginia tonight, by the way.  We’re going to have a very big announcement, which will be very exciting I think for the media and everyone else.  But we have a very big announcement tonight.  I believe I’ll be making it in West Virginia, so that will very exciting.
Thank you very much.
END11:51 A.M. EDT