Ward RoomUSS Kearsarge
2:54 P.M. EDT
Okay, thank you very much.  I wanted to begin by saying we’ll be leaving tomorrow morning very early from the White House.  We’ll be going to Las Vegas.  We will be paying our personal respects and condolences to everybody.
What happened is such a tragedy.  So unnecessary — who can believe what happened in Las Vegas.  Great love for the people, great love for the people of our country, and I look forward to going tomorrow.  The First Lady will be coming with me, and we’re going to be paying our respects and condolences.  We’ll be leaving early in the morning.
We are here on this great ship today, and I want to thank the admiral; I want to thank the captain very much.  Thank you very much.  This is some ship.  Most people would never know a ship like this exists.  This is for helicopters of all sizes and types, and it’s quite something.  And it’s done a tremendous service for Puerto Rico and for the U.S. Virgin Islands.
And we’re really — we were so nicely treated by the U.S. Virgin Islands, frankly, over the years.  They’re great people, and we’re helping out.
And we have with us Governor Kenneth Mapp, who has been very generous with what he said about Brock, about everybody at FEMA, the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marines, the Coast Guard, the whole thing.  And Kenneth, we very much appreciate your remarks, and I appreciate it very much.
And we’re really here right now for you.  We have — because of the size, the massive size of the airplane, the runways can’t handle it.  But the runways have now handled it.  They’ve been open, and they’re handling a lot of aircraft and a lot of help.
And your people have been very resilient, and they have done a great job.  They’re already starting the rebuilding process.  And you got hit twice.  You were hit very hard.
In 12 days, you got hit twice.  And Puerto Rico got hit twice.  They had a grazing one that actually the United States took a lot of brunt from, and then they got hit by Maria, and that was dead center.
So Kenneth, thank you very much.  I very appreciate it.  Would you like to say something?
Thank you.  They are wonderful people too, and I really appreciate that.  I feel that we’re old friends, you know, because we’ve spoken so many times over the last month.  And you are — you have done a terrific job.
And as you know, your friend, the governor of Puerto Rico happens to be here —
— and a congresswoman representing 3.5 million people in Puerto Rico.  And thank you, Jenniffer.
That’s very appropriate now, though, maybe more so than ever, really.  Thank you very much.  And Governor, thank you very much.