Farm Bureau Building
Indianapolis, Indiana
3:30 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much.  You just want massive tax cuts.  That’s what you want.  That’s the only reason you’re going so wild.  (Applause.)
But it’s wonderful to be back in the great state of Indiana.  What a place.  (Applause.)
I want to thank Senator Todd Young, Senator Joe Donnelly, Representative Jackie Walorski, Representative Susan Brooks, and Representative Mike [sic] Messer for joining us today.  Thank you very much.  Thank you very much for being here.  Appreciate it.  (Applause.)
I also want to thank members of my economic team, Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Director Gary Cohn, for joining us, as well.  We appreciate it.  (Applause.)
Let me begin by saying that our hearts and prayers go out to the people of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands who are suffering in the wake of yet another catastrophic hurricane.  I mean, their island was virtually destroyed.  Federal agencies are working closely with local partners to help these communities get back on their feet as soon as possible.
Texas, Florida, and Louisiana are doing great, and the recovery process is happening very, very quickly.
I will be going down to Puerto Rico next week to get an on-the-ground briefing about the disaster recovery and to see all of our great first responders and to meet a lot of the people who were so affected by these storms.  We are with you now, I tell them, and we will be there every step of the way until this job is done.  It is truly catastrophic what happened in Puerto Rico.  (Applause.)
And massive amounts of water, food, and supplies, by the way, are being delivered on an hourly basis.  It’s something that nobody has ever seen before from this country, I can tell you that.  And I’m very proud of all of the folks that have worked so hard in FEMA, all of our first responders, all of our police that have gone to the island because their police force has been so badly affected.  And many of their policemen — in fact, most of the police people have lost their homes, and it’s been a tough go.  But we are — we’re going to get it back.
Before we go on to discuss the largest tax cut in our county’s history, I also want to provide a brief update on healthcare.  We have the votes on Graham-Cassidy.  But with the rules of reconciliation, we’re up against a deadline of Friday — two days.  That’s just two days.  And yes-vote senator — we have a wonderful senator, great, great senator — who is a yes vote, but he’s home recovering from a pretty tough situation.  And with so many great features, including all of the block granting, the money to the states, et cetera, et cetera, our healthcare plan is really going to be something excellent.  It’s going to be better managed for the people that it serves.  Having local healthcare representatives is far better than having healthcare managed from Washington, D.C.  Not even a contest.  (Applause.)
And many, many governors, as you also see, have agreed with us and approved it and really look forward to running it properly.  But again, because the reconciliation window is about to close, we have to wait a few months until it reopens before we take a vote.  So we’re getting all of the good signs from Alaska and the others to repeal and replace Obamacare.  And I was hoping this would be put on my desk right after we won the election, and I’d come in and sign.  But it didn’t work that way.  There were a couple of people that — I won’t say anything.  (Laughter.)  But early next year when reconciliation kicks back in, in any event long before the November election, we’re going to have a vote.  And we’re going to be able to get that through, and I think we’ll actually get it through very easily and the time makes it easier.
But speaking of reconciliation, the Republican Senate needs to get rid of the filibuster rule, which is blocking so many great legislative reforms the American people badly want and deserve.  By the way, the Democrats, if they had the opportunity, which hopefully they won’t for many, many years, they would get rid of it on day one.  And most of you know exactly what I’m talking about.
We’re here today in Indiana to announce our framework to deliver historic tax relief to the American People.  (Applause.)
This is a once-in-a-generation opportunity, and I guess it’s probably something I can say that I’m very good at.  I’ve been waiting for this for a long time.  We’re going to cut taxes for the middle class, make the tax code simpler and more fair for everyday Americans, and we are going to bring back the jobs and wealth that have left our country — and most people thought left our country for good.  (Applause.)
We want tax reform that is pro-growth, pro-jobs, pro-worker, pro-family, and, yes, tax reform that is pro-American.  (Applause.)  It’s time to take care of our people, to rebuild our nation, and to fight for our great American workers.  (Applause.)
Indiana is a tremendous example of the prosperity that is unleashed when we cut taxes and set free the dreams of our citizens.  This state has claimed a powerful competitive edge built on low taxes and less regulation — and are we cutting regulation?  (Applause.)
And businesses all across the country have taken notice.  In recent years, Indiana has welcomed dozens of companies fleeing high taxes and high-tax states.  Thousands of new jobs and massive capital investment have followed — meaning a better quality of life for the people of Indiana.
All of this is possible because the people of this state have made a decision. They chose to make Indiana competitive again.  They chose, and their choice was so important.  It included electing a governor, who you may have heard of — (laughter) — who signed the largest income tax cut in the state’s history, our very, very terrific person and terrific Vice President, Mike Pence.  (Applause.)
It’s time for Washington to learn from the wisdom of Indiana.  We need Washington to promote American jobs instead of obstructing them.  That is what I have been working to achieve every day since I took office.  That is what I talked about on the campaign trail.
Already, we’re seeing the results of an economic policy that finally puts America first.  (Applause.)  Unemployment is at a 16-year low.  Unemployment for African Americans is near its lowest point since the turn of the millennium.  It’s really a fantastic thing to see.  (Applause.)
Wages are rising.  Optimism among manufacturers has reached all-time highs.  GDP growth last quarter reached 3 percent way ahead of schedule; nobody thought that was going to happen for a long time.  (Applause.)  And this quarter, I believe, would have been better, but the hurricanes will have an impact.  But other than that, it would have been, in my opinion, even better.
Your government is working for you once again, not for the donors, not the special interests, but the hardworking taxpaying citizens of our country.  (Applause.)
America is back on the right track.  And I see so many red hats — Make America Great Again.  That’s what we’re doing — Make America Great Again.  (Applause.)  But our country and our economy cannot take off like they should unless we dramatically reform America’s outdated, complex, and extremely burdensome tax code.  It’s a relic.  We’ve got to change it.  We have to compete — compete with other countries.
The current tax system is a colossal barrier standing in the way of America’s economic comeback because it can be far greater than it’s ever been.  But we’re going to remove that barrier to create the tax system our people finally, finally, finally — and want and deserve.
For several months, my administration has been working closely with Congress to develop a framework for tax reform.  Over the next few months, the House and Senate will build on this framework and produce legislation that will deliver more jobs, higher pay, and lower taxes for middle-class families — for the working man and woman — and for businesses of all sizes.  I look forward — (Applause.)  Thank you.
I look forward to working with Congress to deliver these historic tax cuts and reforms to the American people.  These tax cuts are significant.  There’s never been tax cuts like what we’re talking about.
Members of both parties — it happens to be in the automobile industry.  That’s a good industry.  (Laughter.)  Members of both parties should agree that we need a tax code that keeps jobs in our country and brings jobs back to our country.  (Applause.)
And for the millions of small businesses and farms that file their taxes as sole proprietors, S corporations or partnerships, we will cap the tax rate they pay at 25 percent — much lower.  Big difference.  (Applause.)  This will be the lowest top marginal income tax rate for small and mid-size businesses in this country in more than 80 years.  (Applause.)
To give businesses even more reason to boost their investment in America, for the next five years, our framework will allow to fully write off — listen to this — the cost of equipment in the year they buy it.  That is big.  (Applause.)  And that’s instead of having to take deductions and deduct the cost over a long period of time.  Now that’s called incentive.  That’s called incentive.  (Applause.)  This will be tremendously important to help American businesses afford the heavy industrial machinery and other capital investments they need to grow big and grow strong.
Joining us today is John Gannon, the owner of a custom wood fencing and deck construction company in Indianapolis.  John is the father of nine children, and recently celebrated his 35th wedding anniversary.  Congratulations, John.  (Applause.)
And John is in the fencing company, as you heard, and I’m just thinking — I have to mention this — you know, we have a fence around the White House.  (Laughter.)  We have a fence around the White House, and they want to build a new fence.  And I figured, you know — I’m pretty good at construction — I figured, I don’t know, maybe a million, maybe a million-and-a-half.  And this has been taking place over a long period of time — previous administrations.
So I said, “how much is the fence you’re talking around the White House?”  “Sir, the fence will cost approximately $50 million.”  I said, “What?”  (Laughter.)  I kid you not, and we have thousands of things like that.  Thousands.  We’re going to get it all down, but think of that:  $50 million.  Now, I assume it’s a strong fence.  (Laughter.)  Okay?  So, John, do you think you could do it for slightly less than $50 million?  I think he could take $49 off right now and he’d have plenty of profit.  Right?  Right, John?  It’s crazy.  (Applause.)  It’s crazy.  Never understand it, but we’re working on it.
John says that a tax cut like we’re proposing will make his business more competitive, allowing him to expand, hire more workers, and raise wages for his current employees.  Right, John?
Also with us is Aaron Williams, a father of two who works in the field of information technology.  Where’s Aaron?  Hello, Aaron.  Hi.  (Applause.)  It’s a good field.
Aaron has seen the disastrous effects of high — and just literally, high corporate tax rates right up close and personal, as more and more high-tech jobs are shipped overseas.  You’ve been watching it, Aaron.  Right?  All over.  Like millions of other Americans, Aaron wants to bring those jobs back to the United States.
We’re going to reduce the tax rate on American businesses so they can keep jobs in America, Aaron; create jobs in America; compete for workers in America; and raise wages right here in America.  You’re going to be in a much different position.  Okay?  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Tremendous incentives.