Washington Hilton
Washington, D.C.
12:25 P.M. EDT
I know these people well, you wouldn’t believe it.  I know them too well.  (Applause.)  I know them too well.  They cost me a lot of money.  (Laughter.)  I spent a lot of money, but I love them, and they’re great, and their people are fantastic.  And nobody does it like you people, right?  Nobody.  We talked about that — incredible.  Incredible people.
So it’s great to be back with America’s builders.  (Applause.)  So did you ever think you’d see a President who knows how much concrete and rebar you can lay down in a single day?  Believe me, I know.  I know.  (Applause.)  We’re a nation of builders, and it was about time we had a builder in the White House, right?  (Applause.)  We have a builder.
I want to thank Sean McGarvey and the entire governing board of presidents for honoring me with this great invitation.  And I love that it’s in Washington, because I don’t have to travel very far.  Worked out pretty well, I have to tell you.  Five minutes.
Sean took part in one of our very first meetings at the White House –- he mentioned it — and I promise you that America’s labor leaders will always find an open door with Donald Trump.  Always.  (Applause.)  Just look at the amazing talent assembled here.  We have ironworkers, insulators — (applause) — never changes, does it, with the ironworkers?  Let’s hear it.  Laborers.  (Applause.)  Painters.  (Applause.)  Fitters.  (Applause.)  Plumbers.  (Applause.)  Operators — they’re operators, all right, I’ll tell you that.  (Laughter.)  Electricians.  (Applause.)  Not that good.  Where’s my Local 3?  Where’s Local 3?  That wasn’t that good, the electricians — well, they became so rich they don’t have to — (laughter) — let’s do that again.  Electricians.  (Applause.)  That’s better.
Bricklayers.  (Applause.)  Boilermakers.  (Applause.)  Elevator constructors.  (Applause.)  Good job.  Sheet-metal workers.  (Applause.)  Roofers.  (Applause.)  Plasterers — plaster, well, yeah, that’s — not using as much plaster as we used to, fellas, right?  No matter how you cut it.  Sorry about that.  I’m not sure I can do much — we brought back the coalminers.  I’m not so sure about the plasterers.  We’ll do the best we can, okay?  We’re going to do the best we can.  How about the cement masons.  (Applause.)  And, of course, our wonderful Teamsters.  (Applause.)  Oh, that wasn’t very good, James.
But really, you’re the backbone of America.  With the talent in this room, we could build any city at any time, and we can build it better than anyone.  (Applause.)  But we’re going to do even better than that.  Together, we are going to rebuild our nation.  (Applause.)
You’re the keepers of the great trades and traditions that built our country from the New York skyline to the Golden Gate Bridge.  You represent the workers whose hands, skills, and dreams will build the great landmarks of our future.  Every day, your members live out what I call the American Creed.  They’re on the job before dawn and after dusk, and they never quit until that job is done.  You know that.  True.  True.  (Applause.)
We saw this grit on display when the construction trades helped rebuild New York City after 9/11.  (Applause.)  That was a terrible time — we were all there — that was a terrible time in this country’s history.  Worst attack in the history of our country.  Worse than Pearl Harbor.  Pearl Harbor they were attacking military.  Here they were attacking civilians.  Worst attack.  And I saw what happened.  Within a very short period of time, we were back rebuilding, and rebuild you did.  And I really congratulate — that took a lot of courage and a lot of strength. Thank you.  (Applause.)
The fact is you take pride in every part of your work — every joist, bolt, and rivet.  You’re not only builders, but you’re artisans, very talented people.  A lot of people don’t understand, you’re very talented people — enriching our cities and landscapes with works of great beauty.  And just as you take pride in your work, our nation takes great, great pride in you, believe me.  And it’s time that we give you the level playing field you deserve.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.
Washington and Wall Street have done very, very well for themselves.  Now it’s your turn.  And you’re going to be also sharing the wealth.  (Applause.)  And you know, for many years, we’ve been taken advantage of by other countries.  All over the world they took advantage of us.  We had leaders that didn’t have a clue or worse.  That’s not going to happen anymore, folks.  That’s not going to happen anymore.  And you see what’s going on right now.  In fact, the trade deficit went way down — just announced before I got on stage.  And I will tell you, we’re going to have a whole different set of values when it comes to representing our country.  That I can tell you right now.  (Applause.)
This election was all about returning power to the people.  I’ve spent my life working side-by-side with American builders, and now you have a builder as your President.  (Applause.)  One of my first acts as President was to stop one of the great sellouts of the American worker — I immediately withdrew the United States from the disaster — this would have been a disaster — this would have been another NAFTA, which, by the way, is a disaster.  I took you out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  That one wasn’t even close.  And you know it and I know it, everybody knows it.
Next, I cleared the way for the construction of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines.  (Applause.)  And it’s looking like that’s going to have about 42,000 jobs involved, those two jobs.  That some number of great people.  That’s a big, big, beautiful — lot of people.  And Sean actually, and a whole group joined me in the Oval Office when we approved the Keystone permit.
And I joked that day — I said, can you imagine the head of this big Canadian company, in this case, they build pipelines — and they failed.  Didn’t work.  They paid millions and millions and hundreds of millions of dollars to consultants and lawyers, and they failed.  And it was over.  And then one day Trump wins, and a few days later they get a knock on the door — sir, the Keystone pipeline was just approved.
Can you imagine?  I want to see the expression on his face. And he’s a nice guy.  He actually — they came to the office.  (Applause.)  Because I did say you have to use American steel, you have to fabricate it here.  Now, they had already bought 60-70 percent of it.  So you can’t be too wild, right?  But I was signing the order, and I said, where did they buy this steel?  I didn’t like the answer.  I said, who fabricated the steel?  I didn’t like the answer.  I said, from now on we’re going to put a clause — got to be made in America.  We want American steel, made in America.  (Applause.)  Right on the box. 100 percent, right?  (Applause.)
And you’ll be hearing more about this in the very near future.  But as time goes by, let’s say, over the next seven and three-quarters years — meaning eight years — (laughter.)
They did a good job.  They did a good — those ironworkers, you better believe it.
It was an American flag that represented American projects
— the big, bold, and daring dream of one man, and then one city, and then finally, one people.  That banner marked our nation’s proud climb to the top of the world.  Our people endured through the hardships of Depression and the battles of World War II, and they emerged from these trials stronger and more united than ever before.  Now, we must again summon that same national greatness to meet the challenges of our time.
Only miles from the halls of Congress and the newsrooms of Washington, you will find once-thriving cities marred by empty lots and once-booming industrial towns that have become rusted and are in total disrepair.  Standing before me today, in this very hall, are the men and women who, if given the chance, can transform these communities.  You are the citizens who can rebuild our cities, revive our industries, and renew our beloved country.  And I know you will stop at nothing to get the job done.  (Applause.)
For the rest of their lives, everyone who worked on the Empire State Building knew when they looked up at that great New York skyline that they had lifted the Stars and Stripes atop the tallest flagpole on Earth, and that somewhere high above the city streets, their place in history was carved into beams of steel.
In the future, when we become — the trials — and we are — trials of our times — we too will emerge stronger and more united than ever before.  It’s happening, you watch.  When we rise above the cynics and critics who live only to defend the status quo, and to defend themselves from failure, then we, too, will construct a lasting monument to national greatness.
In this future, our nation’s workers and craftsmen will look way out at the vast open landscape, and they will build new bridges and new schools and new landmarks, and they will proudly raise up for all to see our bright and beautiful American flag.  And when we see that flag, we will remember that we all share one American home, one American heart, and one American destiny.
May God bless our nation’s builders.  May God bless our nation’s workers.  And may God bless the United States of America.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  (Applause.)
END
12:54 P.M. EDT