Oval Office
11:03 A.M. EDT
Thank you very much. We greatly appreciate you being here. I’m delighted to welcome Tom Rutledge, Chairman and CEO of Charter Communications — a great company — to the White House. I’m also very honored that my friend, Texas Governor Greg Abbott — my good friend and supporter — we love you — is here with us today. Very appropriate. He’s done a fantastic job in Texas, and we had a previous governor who did a very good job, right?
Right. He’s around here someplace. Standing right over there.
I’m very excited about the announcement we are about to make. First, some background.
Five years ago Charter Communications was a struggling company that had slowly emerged from bankruptcy. Today, thanks to hard work and unbelievable leadership, truly great leadership, it’s the fastest-growing television, Internet, and voice company in the nation. I would say that’s a good job. Not bad.
Tom Rutledge and his team turned the company around, and they did it very quickly. They created a culture of customer service and excellence. And, most importantly, they brought back many jobs that had been shipped overseas — something that’s happening far too often, but we’re changing that. That is very good for certain businesses but not good for the United States, not good for America, not good for our people.
When American workers win, America as a country wins. We want to have companies that thrive and hire and grow right here in America. And we want them to use American workers and American citizens.
Today I am thrilled to announce that Charter Communications has just committed to investing $25 billion — with a B, $25 billion — you’re sure that’s right, right? (Laughter.) With a B, right — $25 billion here in the United States, and has committed further to hiring 20,000 American workers over the next four years.
Charter has also committed to completely end its offshore call centers — that is such a big deal — and to base 100 percent of its call centers here in the United States — all American jobs. This is great for their workers, it’s great for the customers, and it’s certainly great for the United States. And you watch, it will be one of your really fantastic decisions.
Tom will be opening a brand new beautiful call center in McAllen, Texas — you know McAllen, right, good place?
I knew you would say that — (laughter) — where they will create 600 new American jobs. Charter’s announcement follows a number of American businesses — from Exxon to Intel to Lockheed to Boeing to many others — that have recently announced billions of dollars in investment and thousands of jobs coming into the United States following my election victory. And by the way, thank you for your support. The Governor was a great supporter — a great supporter. I want to thank you for — you’ve done a fantastic job.
We’re embracing a new economic model — the American Model. We’re going to massively eliminate job-killing regulations — that has started already, big league — reduce government burdens, and lower taxes that are crushing American businesses and American workers all over this country. And we are really in the process of announcements and you’re going to see thousands and thousands and thousands of jobs, of companies, and everything coming back into our country. And they’re coming in far faster than even I had projected.
So we’re honored. I’d like to have Tom Rutledge say a few words about what he’s doing and about his great company. And after that, you guys can go back to healthcare. (Laughter.)
That’s great. Thank you very much, Tom. Fantastic job with the company. Unbelievable job.
I’d like to just close it out by asking my friend, Governor Greg Abbott to say a few words, and he’ll talk about the company. But he’s very proud of what they’ve been doing in Texas. So am I.
So, Greg.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks, Greg.
Thank you. Congratulations. Congratulations. Thank you.
END11:12 A.M. EDT