Roosevelt Room
3:43 P.M. EST
Okay. We had an exciting news conference before. And some people loved it. I think nobody hated it, but it was — I think it was very productive. And thank you all for being there, that was very nice. And thank you, all of the wonderful politicians, but — right, Mitch, especially the miners that are with us, right? So I just want to thank you. Seriously. (Applause.) We appreciate it. We appreciate it very much.
And this is our second bill signing this week as we continue to work for the American people. This is H.J. Resolution 38, and that will eliminate another terrible job-killing rule, saving many thousands of American jobs, especially in the mines, which I’ve been promising you. The mines are a big deal. I’ve had support from some of you folks right from the very beginning, and I won’t forget it. I went to West Virginia and I — we had 17,000, 18,000 people that couldn’t get into that big arena, right? You were a few of them. But that was some day and some night.
I want to thank Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Speaker Paul Ryan, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop — thank you, Rob — and Representative Bill Johnson, who worked very hard on this bill. And they really did, they worked very hard. This was a tough one.
I also want to thank the great members of Congress who have joined us today. We have a lot of them. In eliminating this rule, I am continuing to keep my promise to the American people to get rid of wasteful regulations that do nothing — absolutely nothing — but slow down the economy, hamstring companies, push jobs to other countries — which is happening all over, although I must tell you, we’ve stopped it. You’ve seen all the factories, all the plants that are moving back. They’re going back to a lot of places. So you know that, right, fellas? They’re moving back fast. Ford, General Motors, Fiat — so many. Very happy.
Compliance costs for this rule would be over $50 million a year for the coal industry alone, and it’s unnecessary. I want to also thank the incredible coal miners who are with us today. I think we can maybe thank them the most, right, for — political leaders. (Applause.) You folks have put up with a lot. And you know, in other countries, they love their coal. Over here, we haven’t treated it with the respect it deserves. Even for defense, having that coal is a very important thing for us. So I want to thank you all.
This rule we’re eliminating it’s a major threat to your jobs, and we’re going to get rid of that threat immediately. We’re going to fight for you like I promised I would in the campaign. And you were very good to me, and I’m going to be even better to you, I promise you that.
And we’re going to fight for, also, low-energy prices for all Americans. There’s a spirit of optimism rising across the country. It’s going to continue to grow as we sign more and more bills. We’re going to make our nation more than competitive — not just competitive, we’re going to be more than competitive. And we’re going to win at many, many industries. We’re already starting back with the automobile industry. We had the airline industry in the other day. They have rules and regulations that by the time they get through it, it’s — nothing left, and they have to get rid of a lot of jobs. We had a great meeting, actually.
We had the unions in. We had the workers in. We had a lot of people in, and they were all very excited about what’s happening. And I haven’t looked yet at the stock market, but it’s been going up at record clips. We have a tremendous streak going on. And that’s only because of the optimism. They feel the optimism. And that optimism is creating a lot of jobs.
So it’s an honor to have everybody with us, and, in particular, the miners. We appreciate everything you’ve done, fellas. Thank you very much.
Would anybody like to say a few words? How about one of the miners saying a few words? I hear these guys all the time. I hear Rand all the time. (Laughter.) Come on. Who’d like to — come on, Mike.
Thank you very much.
How did I do in that area?
Good. Good. Say something.
You’re a — you represent.
Thank you. (Applause.)
Anybody else? Come on. Sure. Absolutely. You deserve it.
You deserve it. Come on up.
It’s a great honor. (Applause.)
So I want to thank everybody. And tell your friends back in West Virginia and Kentucky and all the other places where we worked — Wyoming —
North Dakota. Ohio.
You’re right about that. They have been fantastic. Everybody’s been — actually, everybody’s been great, and we appreciate it very much. Special people. Special workers. We’re bringing it back, and we’re bringing it back fast. We didn’t have to wait a long period of time. It’s been very few days since I’ve been here, and I think this is long ahead of schedule, right? Wouldn’t you say even —
Even you might say — (laughter) — this is about four years faster than they thought would have happened. So it’s my honor. And, fellas, go back to work, all right? I think we’ll take them into the Oval Office, right? Let’s take them into the Oval Office. Let’s have a little tour, okay? They’ve probably been there many times before. (Laughter.) Come on. Come with me. Good.
Thank you, everybody. Thank you, very much.
Oh. (Laughter.) I could have gotten away with it.