East Room
3:54 P.M. EDT
Thank you, Mike.  And you know, Mike, it is true that, as I walked through the halls, we saw so many great companies, but the gentleman who was in charge of Omaha Beef — they do beef — he hugged me, he wanted to kiss me so badly.  (Laughter.)  Because he said, our business is a whole different business now because you got China approved; the other administrations couldn’t even come close.  And I told him, you know how long it took?  One sentence.  I said, President Xi, we’d love to sell beef back in China again.  He said, you can do that.  That was the end of that.  Right?  (Applause.)  Sonny.  The great Sonny Perdue.  (Applause.)  So we’re very happy.
But we’re here today to celebrate American manufacturing and to showcase the amazing products from all 50 states, made in the USA.  Remember in the old days they used to have “Made in the USA”, “Made in America”?  But made in the USA.  We’re going to start doing that again.  We’re going to put that brand on our product because it means it’s the best.
In just a few months and moments, I will say what we’ve done over a short period of time and what we’re going to be doing over the next six months will be incredible.
We’ve signed more bills — and I’m talking about through the legislature — than any President ever.  For a while, Harry Truman had us, and now I think we have everybody, Mike.  I better say “think,” otherwise they’ll give me a Pinocchio — (laughter) — and I don’t like those — I don’t like Pinocchios.  (Laughter.)
In just a few moments, I’ll be signing a Presidential Proclamation to launch “Made in America Week” and to make today “Made in America Day.”
I think.  (Laughter and applause.)  And when it does happen, that will be a big day in America, believe me.  A big day in America.
But we must also fight the unfair trade practices that have gutted our industry, and that includes cracking down on the predatory online sales of foreign goods, which is absolutely killing our shoppers and our shopping centers.  If you look at what’s going on with shopping centers and stores and jobs in stores, it’s been very, very tough for them.  They’ve had a very hard time.  Closing at numbers and records that have never been seen before.  So we have to stop that — the online predatory practices.
Since the beginning of the year, we have already created over 50,000 brand-new manufacturing jobs, and we’re just getting started.  We will lift our citizens from welfare to work.  We will turn boarded-up communities into new outposts of American commerce.  And we will once again rediscover our heritage as a manufacturing nation.  We used to be a manufacturing nation.  Not so much anymore.  But I will tell you, if you look at Michigan, if you look at some states that have really moved — you know, in Pennsylvania, two weeks ago they opened the mine — the first mine that was opened in decades.  Opened a mine.
And you know all the people that were saying the mining jobs?  Well, we picked up 45,000 mining jobs in a very short period of time.  And everybody was saying, well, you won’t get any mining jobs.  We picked up 45,000 mining jobs, and the miners are very happy with Trump and with Pence.  And we’re very proud of that.  But that’s just the beginning.  We have jobs coming from all over.
Restoring American manufacturing will not only restore our wealth, it will restore our pride and pride in ourselves.  It will revitalize our independence, and it will rebuild the bonds of kinship between our communities and our citizens, which has been lagging, wouldn’t you say?
For most of our nation’s history, American — and we see this — American Presidents have understood that in order to protect our economy and our security, we must protect our industry.  And much of that comes at the border.  George Washington encouraged Americans to produce their own goods so that our young nation could become truly independent.
President James Garfield said, of our nation’s manufacturers, that, “to them the country owes the splendor of the position it holds before the world” — meaning, protect us.
Theodore Roosevelt declared in his first message to Congress that “reciprocity” — my favorite word, reciprocity — because we have countries that charge us 100 percent tax on a product, and when that product is sold by them to us, we brilliantly charge them nothing.  And people say, oh, that’s free trade.  No, that’s stupid trade.  That’s really stupid trade.  (Applause.)
It’s incredible.  You’ll actually have people who — “No, we can’t do that.  That’s free trade.”  It’s just — that’s so incredible, but what are you going to do.  (Laughter.)  Oh, what happens in Washington, you just wouldn’t believe the things.
But “reciprocity must be treated as the handmaiden of protection.”  And William McKinley proclaimed that “we ought to take care of our own nation and her industries first.”  We have to look at our nation first for a change.  We’ve been looking the other way for a long, long time.  And if you look at what’s going on or the success of other nations — even in Europe — you look at some of those countries, one in particular, it’s not fair to the United States.
And that’s why I’m here, and I believe it’s one of the primary reasons you elected me and Mike.  I mean, that’s why we’re here.  And I think you’re going to see a big, big — I don’t think — I don’t think — I know you’re going to see one of the great differences, and you’re already seeing it, but it’s going to get more so and more so.  And we’re going to end up having a level playing field.
I don’t want to say any more than level.  But if the playing field were slanted like a little bit toward us, I’d accept that also.  Okay?  (Applause.)
So, once again, we will celebrate craftsmen, producers, and innovators like the incredible men and women in this room today.  We will protect our workers, promote our industry, and be proud of our history because we will put America first.  America will be first again.  We will make America great again.  Remember that.  (Applause.)  And we’ll meet in this same room in a year and in two years, and you’ll see what happened.
Thank you for all being here.  God bless you and God bless America.  Thank you very much.  Thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)
(The President moves to the signing desk.)
So this is being signed in honor of Made in America Day and Made in America Week, and soon we’re going to have Made in America Decades.  We’re going to have a lot of tremendous success, and it’s already just starting to kick in.
You see it with the job numbers.  You see it with the stock market, which hit an all-time high every day for quite a while now.  You see it with so many other things.  And most importantly perhaps, you see it with the manufacturers.  Their level of enthusiasm is greater now than at any time since they’ve been taking this type of poll, and I believe it’s 28 years old.  So people are enthused.  Are you all enthused?  (Applause.)
Thank you all for being here.
(The document is signed.)
END4:07 P.M. EDT