State Dining Room
7:29 P.M. EST
Thank you very much, everybody. I want to just congratulate the First Lady on having done a really beautiful job. The room, they say, has never looked better, but who knows. I’m sure it’s looked very good many times. So, Melania, congratulations. (Applause.)
I also want to congratulate and thank a truly great Vice President of the United States, and his wonderful wife, Karen. And wherever you are, Mike, stand up just for a second. Mike Pence. (Applause.)
So I can say that after four weeks — they were a lot of fun — but we’ve accomplished almost everything we’ve started out to accomplish. The borders are stricter, tighter. We’re going a really good job. General Kelly has does a fantastic job militarily. As you know, we have a fantastic team. We have an A team. And I’m getting some good reports. There are some big problems in the world — you know that very well — but we’re very happy with the way things are working. And again, we’ve made a lot of promises over the last two years, and many of those promises already are kept. So we’re very honored by that. And I — (applause) — thank you, thank you.
I just want to salute and toast the governors — the great governors of the United States. They have done an amazing job. Such an easy job you have. (Laughter.) So easy. But you have done a fantastic job, and your families and wives and — well, everybody is here. I mean, I’ve seen daughters come tonight. I’ve seen wives. I’ve seen — all I know is, everybody is lovely, and we’re going to have a wonderful evening.
And tomorrow, we’re going to meet, and we’re going to discuss things, like perhaps healthcare will come up. Perhaps. (Laughter.) And I think we’ve made a lot of progress on that. And we’re going to have a speech on Tuesday night, and we’re going to be speaking very specifically about a very complicated subject. Everybody is different, every state is different, and different requirements, but I think we have something that’s going to really be excellent.
And as most of you know, the Obamacare has had tremendous problems. I won’t say in front of the Democrats, I’ll just say it to the Republicans — (laughter) — it doesn’t work. But we’re going to have it fixed, and we’re going to repeal and replace. And I think you’re going to see something very, very special.
And for all of you, and even tonight, because we have Tom Price with us — if you see something or want to discuss it, we don’t have to discuss all friendly stuff. We can discuss a little bit of the healthcare. We might as well start. But tomorrow morning, we’re going to meet and have some pretty big sessions on healthcare and other things — whatever is on your mind.
So I hear this is a record number of governors — 46. And that’s the highest number that have ever shown up for this evening. (Applause.) So, with that, I would like to toast the great, great governors of the United States. Thank you.
(A toast is offered.)
Now, I know it’s inappropriate, but I’d like to ask a friend of mine — I’ve just destroyed his political career — (laughter) — from the other side, a man from Virginia — I’ve known him a long time, and he’s a very good guy — Governor Terry McAuliffe to come up and also, perhaps, make a toast. Thank you. Terry, where are you? Come on up, Terry. (Applause.)