Hyatt Regency Da Nang Resort and Spa
Da Nang, Vietnam
2:15 P.M. ICT
Hello, everybody.  And I assume that by now you’re pretty exhausted.  The media must be absolutely exhausted, looking to go home.But we have had a tremendous time.  And we’re in Vietnam tomorrow, we go to the Philippines, and then back to the United States.  We’ll be landing in Washington.  And I think we’ve had a tremendous period of time, starting in Japan, going to South Korea, going to China.
Last night’s celebration in China was something, the likes of which few people have ever seen before.  So we’ve had a very exciting time.
I’m very honored to be representing our country, and I will say that, when you speak of honors, one of my great honors is to present the people standing right behind me — great, great warriors and veterans of the Vietnam War.
Our veterans are a national treasure, and I thank them all for their service, sacrifice, and patriotism.
To each of you with me today, you are the heroes who fulfill your duty to our nation.  And each of you, under the most difficult conditions, did what you had to do, and you did it well.
My administration, as you all know, is committed to rebuilding our military and honoring the hard work and sacrifices of all veterans.  We’re extremely proud of what we’ve done with the Veterans Administration.  Dr. Shulkin has done an amazing job with choice and accountability and so many other things that we are doing and in the process of doing.  The Veterans Administration is a whole different place.
Our accountability efforts in Vietnam are very, very important to all of us.  We will not rest until all of the 1,253 missing veterans are returned home.  I want to thank the government of Vietnam for their assistance in our efforts.
Today, I’m signing a proclamation to honor the veterans of the Vietnam War.  This is part of the ongoing 13-year commemoration of their sacrifice for freedom.  And I just want to thank these seven very brave people for being here.  I got to know them for a few minutes upfront, and they are definitely tough, smart cookies.  We like them.  I think they like me too.  I’m not sure, but I think — (applause) — no, I think they do.  I think they do.  I think they see what we’re doing for our military.
Would you like to say a few words, any of you guys?  Would you like to say something?  Huh?
Come on.  Come on up here.  Here’s your chance.  You can be a big star now.
Thank you very much.  That’s so nice.  Thank you very much.
We will keep it going, and we will get it done.
No doubt.
Anybody?
Thank you so much.  (Applause.)
You nervous?
I don’t think so.  I don’t think so.
Well, I just want to thank everybody.  These are special, special people.  And just in speaking to them, before I came up — they were so warm and so loving of our country — I said, “Hey, would you like to say a few words?”  And they said them better than anybody can say them.
They’re brave, they’re strong, they’re great patriots.  And we just want to thank you and all of the thousands and thousands and all of the people that served with you and in all of the other wars.
And, you know, one of the things, again, that I’m so happy with is what we’re doing with the whole Veterans Administration.  It is a whole different ballgame.
And I’m going to sign a proclamation, and I’ll sign it with one pen, but we’re going to make sure we have seven pens.  And we’re going to get you each one.  But it’s an important proclamation, and we’ll do it right now.
Thank you all.  You have done a fantastic job.  I appreciate it.  Thank you very much.
So this is the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Vietnam War by the President of the United States of America.  It’s a proclamation.  And thank you
very much.
(The proclamation is signed.)
END
2:21 P.M. EDT