Cabinet Room
2:49 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much.  I am pleased to welcome this bipartisan group of Democrats and Republican lawmakers to the White House.  More and more, we’re trying to work things out together.  That’s a positive thing, and it’s good for the Republicans and good for the Democrats.  And this group knows that very well.
Whether we can do the incredible things that we’re doing — and working in a bipartisan fashion, obviously, would be a positive and, I think, something, Tom, that we all feel good about.
I want to thank Tom Reed.  He’s been a friend of mine for a long time.  He was there right at the beginning when it wasn’t very fashionable.  Right?  And I really appreciate it.
And Josh Gottheimer, for helping to organize this very important gathering.  I think it’s really — the whole concept of what we’re trying to do is very, very important.
Inspired by the example of our own citizens, we should be able to come together to make government work for the people — that’s why I was elected, that’s why I ran — and to provide jobs and opportunities to millions of struggling families.  This includes tax reform that is pro-jobs, pro-growth, pro-family, and pro-American.  It’s very simple.  It’s all pro-American.
Well, I’m conservative and, I will tell you, I’m not skeptical.  And I think that if we can do things in a bipartisan manner, that will be great.
Now, it might not work out, in which case, we’ll try and do them without.  But I think if we can do, in a bipartisan manner — if you look at some of the greatest legislation ever passed, it was done on a bipartisan manner.  And so that’s why we’re going to give it a shot.  Right, Tom?  And we’ll see what we can do.  And if it works out, great.  And if it doesn’t work out, great.  Hopefully we’ll be able to do it anyways — Republicans.
Okay?  Thank you.
We’re looking at a 15 percent rate.  And we want a 15 percent rate because that would bring us low — not by any means the lowest — but it would bring us to a level where China and other countries are.  And we will be able to compete with anybody.  Nobody will be able to touch us.  So we would like to see 15 percent.
Thank you very much everybody.
And, by the way, lower for individuals — much lower than that for individuals.  And the rich will not be gaining at all with this plan.  We’re looking for the middle class, and we’re looking for jobs.  Jobs, meaning companies.  So we’re looking at the middle class and we’re looking at jobs.
I think the wealthy will be pretty much where they are — pretty much where they are.  If we can do that, we’d like it.  If they have to go higher, they’ll go higher, frankly.  We’re looking at the middle class and we’re looking at jobs.
Okay?  Thank you very much.
END2:56 P.M. EDT