Roosevelt Room
10:53 A.M. EST
Thank you all for being here. I had a lot of good discussions this morning. I’m negotiating a lot of contracts that are saving billions and billions of dollars for the American people and for all of us, and I’m very proud of it.
You know, the F-35 fighter jet, the Air Force One program, which was totally out of control and now it’s back where it’s supposed to go, and many other things. In addition, I had a very good phone call this morning about a major plant that’s moving back into the United States. We’ll be talking about it soon.
And what I do have is a little free time at about 12 o’clock. So I don’t think the press will want to show up, but I think I’ll have a press conference probably at 12 o’clock in the East Room. We had a little time in between things. So if the press would like to show up — will anybody show up to that press conference? (Laughter.) Historically, they didn’t care about these things. For me, they show up. So I think 12 o’clock in the East Room of the White House we’ll have a press conference.
I just want to thank you folks for coming today. This was good. This was scheduled a long time ago — some of my very, very early supporters. And I’ve been your supporter also. We’re doing really well. The fake-news media doesn’t like talking about the economy; I never see anything about the stock market sets new records every day. I never see it. But I think the people understand it.
We’re giving a speech in Melbourne, Florida on Saturday. I think it’s going to be around 4 o’clock. and I hear the tickets, you can’t get them, but that’s okay. It’s better than you have too many, right? So it’s going to be great. I look forward to that. So that will be Melbourne at 4 o’clock.
I really appreciate you folks. You folks have been so great. And right from the beginning, and, Tom, right at the beginning. Just about every one of you, right at the beginning. Some of you were a little after the beginning. (Laughter.) But we forgive. But we forgive.
Let’s go around, just for the media, and you’ll introduce yourselves and then we’ll start talking, and I’ll see the media back at 12 o’clock.
Chris?
These are real friends.
Thank you. That’s right.
That’s right. We’re going to give you some money for transportation. That’s good. Good territory.
That’s right.
Thank you. Thank you.
Uh oh. (Laughter.)
I think this is great.
That’s beautiful. Thank you.
He’s a talented guy, I can see that.
It’s nice.
Right.
Thank you very much. (Laughter and applause.) Okay. All right. Thank them for me.
Thank them for me. Rick, we know who you are.
We’re going to get it done. And the health care is going really well. And now that we finally have Tom, Tom Price — so that’s a big thing. I mean, we couldn’t get him.
We are going to be announcing — I guess I’ll do it at 12 o’clock — a new Secretary of Labor, who is really phenomenal. So that will be at 12 o’clock. And we’re getting — I mean, this is the slowest in history, the approval of a Cabinet. And these people are outstanding people. The man I’ll be announcing for Labor is a star, great person. A great person.
And so I look forward to that. But I appreciate everything you’ve done. You’ve been fantastic, and I appreciate that. Thank you.
I know, Mike.
We did okay.
We took an area that wasn’t a big Republican area, and we swamped them, right? (Laughter.)
Wow.
Well, thank you very much.
He’s a great guy.
He played well, I’ll tell you. And you know, we played with Ernie Els. I called up Billy — I said, see if you can get me somebody good to play with; I have the Prime Minister of Japan who wants to play golf. So we get to the front of the club, and Ernie Els is waiting for us. He said, when you’re ready. So we had a good time.
No, he played very nicely, and he’s a great guy. You’re going to like him. I like him.
Well, we had a good feeling.
Well, I always said about President Obama, it’s great to play golf, but play golf with heads of countries. And, by the way, people like yourself, when you’re looking for votes, don’t play with your friends who you play with every week. (Laughter.) Does that make sense?
I hit it off with the Prime Minister. He is a fabulous guy. He’s — loves his country. And we spoke all day long and well into the night. As you know, they launched a missile in North Korea, and we were discussing that. So it was really something.
But have a good time over there.
And give him my regards.
He was.
They’re all good.
Right.
She’s fought hard. She’s fought hard. Yes. You know what, if you would, Billy, why don’t you give me that request? And we’ll see if we can do that.
Marsha.
We’re going to get it.
Thank you very much, everybody. I’ll see you at 12 o’clock if you want. If you don’t want, don’t be there. (Laughter.) If you don’t show up, I won’t be offended. (Laughter.)
We’re going to find the leakers. We’re going to find the leakers. They’re going to pay a big price for leaking. It’s all about the leakers. You know the Russians are just a muse — it’s all about the leakers.
END11:01 A.M. EST