Cabinet Room
11:32 A.M. EDT
Hello, everybody. Thank you for being here with us this morning. During my campaign, I promised to take action to keep drugs from pouring into our country. And I want to just thank Secretary Kelly; he’s done an amazing job. Down 61 percent at the border right now in terms of people and the drugs that are being stopped. It will take longer, and there’s great cooperation with Mexico and others. But we’re doing a good job.
And we want to help those who have become so badly addicted. Drug abuse has become a crippling problem throughout the United States. Drug overdoses are now the leading cause of accidental death in our country. And opioid overdose deaths have nearly quadrupled since 1999. This is a total epidemic, and I think it’s probably almost untalked about compared to the severity that we’re witnessing.
Today, we’re bringing together leaders from inside our government and outside of our government, and courageous people who have been affected — and really affected — by this terrible affliction. In a joint campaign, we want to battle drug addiction and combat opioid, and we have to do it — a crisis.
We’re fortunate to have Governor Chris Christie with us, a friend of mine — a great friend of mine — a very, very early endorser — in fact, an immediate endorser — once he got out of the race. (Laughter.) He liked himself more than he liked me. (Laughter.) But other than that —
Other than that, he’s been great. And he’s a very effective guy, I will tell you — to have you working on this — and a great moment, actually, if people remember, was you talking about your friend. That was probably your greatest moment during the campaign for President, and it showed how much you knew about this issue. So, thank you very much, Chris.
We’ll work directly with representatives from state and local governments, law enforcement, medical professionals, and victims. I especially want to thank Pam Garozzo — where’s Pam? Hi, Pam. How are you? — for being here. Pam sadly lost her son, beautiful boy, to drug addiction. And, Pam, we mourn your terrible loss, and we honor your strength and the fact that you’re here. And he will not have died in vain, okay? We’ll make sure — he will not have died in vain. So thank you, Pam. We appreciate it.
We’re also thankful to welcome AJ Solomon and Vanessa Vitolo, both of whom have fought addiction and are now symbols of hope and recovery, right? Good job.
We must get our citizens to help, and we need help. Everybody has to help. And we will not have to go through what Pam has gone through and so many other families in this country have gone through. We want to help people like AJ and Vanessa, who struggled through the dark depths of addiction. Not easy. Not easy. And they found this bright promise of recovery.
We wish to also focus on prevention and law enforcement, which is why I’ve issued previous executive actions to strengthen law enforcement and dismantle criminal cartels. Drug cartels have spread their deadly industry across our nation, and the availability of cheap narcotics — the cheap narcotics — some of it comes in cheaper than candy — has devastated our communities. It’s really one of the biggest problems our country has, and nobody really wants to talk about it.
Vice President Pence mentioned this coming into the room. He said, this is a problem like nobody understands. And I think they’re going to start to understand it. And, more importantly, we have to solve the problem.
Our Attorney General, Jeff Sessions, is working very hard on this problem. It takes a lot of his time, because this causes so much of the problem that you have to solve — that problem.
So solving the drug crisis will require cooperation across government and across society, including early intervention to keep America’s youth off this destructive path. We must work together, trust each other, and forge a true partnership based on the common ground of cherishing human life.
So this is a very, very important meeting, and maybe we’ll go around the room and we’ll just say hello to everybody so we all know who we are. And then the press will leave and we’ll start talking.
General Sessions, we know who you are. Go ahead.
Oh, they could use you now. (Laughter.) You know, I think you’d make $100 million a year right. I tell you, I watched for many years Mariano. I’d sit with George, and George always felt good when Mariano was —
He threw the heaviest pitch any time. I don’t know — you made the ball like — it weighed 30 pounds, right?
How about the broken bats? (Laughter.) How many broken bats?
Those bats used to crack, right? Thank you. Great honor.
And, Jared, thank you, and Chris. Chris, why don’t you say a few words?
Thank you very much. Maybe, Vanessa, you can tell a little bit of your story. We’re so proud of you.
So this all began very innocently with an injury.
And what was it? What was the drug they gave?
I see.
How hard was that, getting off this horrible stuff? How hard was it for you?
And what did your parents say during this whole process? Because I’m looking at you, you’re like all-American — perfect. You’re a perfect person. And I’m saying it’s hard to believe that you’re living on the streets.
Incredible story. Thank you very much. (Applause.) Amazing, amazing job. Thank you very much, Vanessa. And we’ll talk to you in a little while.
AJ? And I know how successful your father is and what a great man he is, so that also put pressure on you in a different way, right?
Don’t do it. (Laughter.)
Immediately hooked? Because I hear so much about OxyContin. Were you immediately hooked?
Do you have still an alcohol problem?
But that was — you could see you were going to have that problem. But you found this OxyContin?
But not — not anymore, right?
That’s an amazing story. How did you get off it? How did you get — did you go to a center or something? Or what happened?
And what was that like?
So he was right?
But you got through it? How long did that take?
It was two weeks of — they used to call it cold turkey, right?
Do they still do that?
No way. So you went through two weeks of that, and that was hell?
But then you knew you were going to get better?
So he did you a great service when he did that?
Smart guy. You have done an amazing job. It’s so great. Not easy. Not easy, right, AJ?
But we’re very proud of you. (Applause.)
Chris.
Which is getting worse and worse I hear, Jeff.
Getting just out of control.
If Carlos stayed longer in the program, would he have been in better shape? Would it have possibly saved him? Or not really?
Do you want some water? Are you okay?
No, I’m just saying — behind you. I thought she —
Thank you, Pam. Carlos sounds like he was a great guy, and I know how tough it is. So many people go through it, and we appreciate you being here.
Jeff, do you have anything to say?
When did this start again? It’s so bad. When did it start, would you say — over the last how many years — where it really took the big spike up?
You would know that. When do you think it really started spiking up, Chuck?
That’s great.
So it’s been really — it spiked over the last eight to ten years. Would that have anything to do with the weakening of the borders? Because a lot of it comes from the southern border.
Thank you very much, Chuck.
All right, thank you very much, folks.
Yes, we will. It’s a big issue — very, very big issue. Thank you, thank you.
END12:05 P.M. EDT