Texas Department of Public Safety Emergency Operations CenterAustin, Texas
3:22 P.M. CDT
And I want to just say hello — Elaine Duke is here someplace.  Elaine, fantastic job.  And Brock has been incredible.  And from your standpoint, Nim and the whole group, and Steve, who I just met — Steve — and the job that they’ve done getting along.  Number one, they like each other — very important.  And number two, they respect each other.  And the job that all of these groups have done getting along is — in terms of coordination, has been really incredible, and everyone is talking about it.
The sad thing is that this is long term.  Nobody has ever seen anything this long, and nobody has ever seen this much water.  The wind was pretty horrific, but the water has never been seen like this to the extent.
And it’s maybe someday going to disappear.  We keep waiting.  We have three of our great — four of our great congressmen right here, and we really appreciate you being here.  We’re going to be working with Congress on helping out the state of Texas.  It’s going to be a costly proposition, because again, and probably — Ted Cruz is here.  And, Senator, thank you very much — Senator Cornyn.  And we’ll be working with these characters over here — (laughter) — and I think we’ll come through and really get the right solution.
But probably there’s never been anything so expensive in our country’s history.  There’s never been anything so historic in terms of damage and in terms of ferocity as what we’ve witnessed with Harvey.  Sounds like such an innocent name, Ben, right?  But it’s not.  (Laughter.)  It’s not innocent.  It’s not innocent.
I also want to thank my people.  And Ben Carson, as you know, is here from HUD, and Linda is — Linda McMahon from Small Business.  And I say this is not small business, Linda, this is big business.  When you add it all up, you’re going to be giving away many, many millions of dollars to help people out.  And Tom Price, as you know is — Dr. Tom Price — you have your people in the field, Tom.
In fact, you may say a couple of words.  And then I’ll ask Linda and I’ll ask Ben, and then I think we’ll get on to Nim and to Brock and everybody.
Tom.
And they’re big ones.
Thank you very much.  Thank you, Tom.
Linda.
Thank you very much.  And Ben Carson from HUD.
Thank you, Ben, very much.  I appreciate it.
So, Nim, why don’t you take over along with Brock, and we can through some of the different things that we’re going to be doing.
END3:30 P.M. CDT