State Dining Room
9:47 A.M. EST
Thank you for being here. Nothing like having meetings in the White House. Good place. Good place for meetings. Good place for a lot of things. People don’t realize I inherited a mess. A big mess. I think they know. I think they understand.
Well, thank you all. I know so many of you through reading and through business magazines, and you’ve done an amazing job. And I want to congratulate you. I know you’re under pressure from a lot of foreign elements and foreign carriers. I’ve been hearing that a little bit. At the same time, we want to make life good for them also. They come with big investments — in many cases, those investments are made by their governments. But they are still big investments.
I’m thrilled to welcome the leaders of the airline industry to the White House. Your industry supports over 10 million well-paying U.S. jobs and creates almost $1 trillion in economic activity, which is really big stuff, really amazing.
Last year, our airlines moved approximately 2 million people each day in our country, which is an incredible number of people. And they move them well — despite the bad equipment that the airports give you in many cases, because they can’t get approvals, and we had regulatory morass that’s a disaster.
And I can tell you that a lot of the new equipment that already is obsolete the day they order it — and that’s according to people that know, including my pilot. I have a pilot who’s a real expert, and he said, sir, the equipment they’re putting on is just the wrong stuff. And we’ll talk about that. Because if we’re going to modernize our systems, we should be using the right equipment. And I know Mr. Tilden is nodding. You know what I mean. It’s one thing to order equipment, but let’s order the right equipment. Probably the wrong equipment costs more. You can probably buy the right equipment for less money. So we want to talk about that. Because my pilot, he’s a smart guy, and knows what’s going on. He said the government is using the wrong equipment and instituting a massive, multibillion-dollar project, but they’re using the wrong type of equipment. So let’s find out about that.
We want the traveling public to have the greatest customer service, with an absolute minimum of delays and with great convenience all at the lowest possible cost. We want to help you realize these goals, and we will indeed help you realize these goals. Airports are very important when you travel. Very important.
As an example, some of you were saying yesterday to me that you go to China, you go to Japan, they have fast trains all over the place. We don’t have one. I don’t want to compete with your business — (laughter) — but we don’t have one fast train. And it’s the same thing with our airports. Our airports used to be the best. Now they’re at the bottom of the rung. We’ve spent $6 trillion — think of it — as of about two months ago, $6 trillion in the Middle East. We’ve got nothing. We’ve got nothing. We never even kept just even a little tiny oil well. Not one little one. I said, keep the oil. But we’ve spent right now $6 trillion in the Middle East. We have nothing. And we have an obsolete plane system, we have obsolete airports, we have obsolete trains. We have bad roads. We’re going to change all of that, folks. You’re going to be so happy with Trump. I think you already are.
So we want to help you realize these goals by rolling back burdensome regulations. And you people are regulated probably as much as almost anybody, although I can think of a couple of industries that are even worse. Lowering the overall tax burden on American businesses big league. That’s coming along very well. Way ahead of schedule, I believe. And we’re going to be announcing something, I would say, over the next two or three weeks that will be phenomenal in terms of tax, and developing our aviation infrastructure.
Again, I want to thank you all for being here. So I want this to be a meeting of substance. I want to be able to do things for you. The auto industry was in. They left, they said it was the best meeting they’ve ever had. I even took them into the Oval Office. The head of Ford, the head of General Motors, the head of Fiat, others — they never saw the Oval Office. I said, you mean they never took you in? You see how far away it was from the room? Ten feet. It was 10 feet across the hallway, but they never got taken in. I took them in.
The auto companies are going to be making massive investments in Michigan and Ohio, in Pennsylvania, a lot of the places where jobs have left. So we’re really happy about that. They’ve been great. Ford is going to build — you know they cancelled a big plant in a certain place, I won’t say where — a $2 billion plant, and they’re building it in the United States and they’re expanding greatly. General Motors the same thing. They’ve been great. They’ve been great. I think they’ll continue to be great.
But we’re also going to be great to them. We’re going to get rid of a lot of unnecessary regulation, and we’re going to make their life a lot easier. They’re going to employ a lot more people. So a lot of businesses are rushing in. They’re coming in big league.
So with that, I thought what I would do is perhaps we’ll start with Mr. Gray. We’ll go around the room and just quickly just say who you are and who you represent. The biggest of the airlines are here.
And you can — no, stay, stay, stay. Let them see who’s here. (Laughter.) Everyone is so quick to get rid of the press. I think I am the most open President ever. (Laughter.) They want to get rid of the press. What, you don’t want to see who Mr. Gray is? (Laughter.) Maybe I should have started with somebody else. (Laughter.) Okay, you can stay. Yeah, stay. Stay for a while. See who’s here, right? Okay, good.
Great. Welcome. Delta is doing well.
That’s right. That’s right, good.
You’ve been very good. Thank you.
Good job.
By the way, Fred Smith was here yesterday.
He’s a great, great guy.
Great job.
Okay, good.
Great. We spoke a long time ago.
And you did a good job.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Great.
Okay. Thank you.
We’ll make it number one worldwide. Let’s make it number one. (Laughter.) I didn’t like the number. What is number one now in terms of service?
That’s good. We love the state of Georgia. I love Georgia — I tell you that’s for sure. So that’s good.
So let me ask you — so what can we do to make your airlines better, to make your balance sheet better, to have you get more jobs and create more jobs, to have you win competition worldwide so you can start doing more business worldwide? Because I know you have a lot of competition, and a lot of that competition is subsidized by governments, big league. I’ve heard that complaint from different people in this room. Probably about one hour after I got elected I was inundated with calls from your industry, and many other industries, because it’s a pretty unfair situation.
What can we do? Give me suggestions that we can make your life easier and that you can employ a lot more people.
Southwest Airlines.
I want to congratulate you because you have done an amazing job, really amazing job. You really have. So congratulations. Go ahead.
You shouldn’t know them too well. (Laughter.)
I hear that. I hear we have the wrong system. I’m hearing that the United States government — and is the gentleman who’s the head of the FAA right now not a pilot? Or is that — does he —
I’d like to find out because I think it maybe would be good to have a pilot, like a really good pilot who knows what’s going on. I’ve heard that, and, I don’t know, it seems a little hard to believe because the complexity of your business is right up there, right?
And I would think you need a very sophisticated person in that job, and somebody that, frankly — being a pilot would be helpful, because I’m hearing you put the wrong — I hear the government contracted this system that’s the wrong system, and I hear that from pilots. So who would be better to tell me? But I hear we’re spending billions and billions of dollars. It’s a system that’s totally out of whack. It’s way over budget, it’s way beyond schedule, and when it’s completed, it’s not going to be a good system. Other than that, it’s okay. (Laughter.)
So what do you think about that, Gary?
It’s already outdated.
Has that been you or the government or both?
So when you say “we” — “we” the government —
Why do the airlines allow that to happen where they put in a bad system? Not even antiquated — and it’s antiquated because it’s taken so long. Why do the airlines allow a system that you know is bad from the beginning — because you guys are pros — why do they allow the government to put in the wrong system?
Headed by the airlines? Headed by who? The board would be who?
Well, this wouldn’t have happened then. You wouldn’t be putting in a system — a control system — that is obsolete before they even signed the contract. And, by the way, overly expensive. More expensive than (inaudible).
So how long would it take to — because I’m hearing you have to scrap all of the billions of dollars that have been put in — stupidly put in. How long would it take to come up with a great air traffic control system, the top anywhere in the world, the top of the line? How long would that take to do and how much would it cost?
So you’d save a lot of time, you’d save a tremendous amount of fuel.
It’s safe but it’s very cautious. And it should be cautious.
But I notice the intervals when planes go out seem very, very long.
And what is the reason for that?
Yeah.
Not anymore it’s not political. We’re going to get —
— at a reasonable price. So not anymore. Go ahead.
Is the head of the FAA a pilot? Does anybody know? Somebody should know.
He’s not? He’s not a pilot. I just think a non-pilot would not know the sophistication of this system, right? I mean, better to have a pilot — because my pilot said it’s a terrible system that they’re installing; that the work they’re doing now is a waste of tremendous amounts of money because the system is a bad system. That’s coming from a pilot.
Both.
How much is it?
The problem is, I don’t like raising fees or taxes — I’ll be honest. I mean, we’re spending all this money overseas, we’re giving away trillions of dollars to all these countries. All of the countries that trade with us are ripping us off. The last thing we have to do is raise the fee. I understand what you’re saying, but $4.50 — it’s a lot when you look at all of the passengers.
If there were other ways of doing this — because you’re only hurting yourself by — really, eventually, people are going to just stop flying because it’s very expensive with all the taxes. I mean, there are other ways. We’re spending so much money overseas, fighting wars, doing things, and, frankly, making horrible trade deals. So don’t worry about the money. I’ll be able to get the money. The money — we’re going to change things around.
END10:07 A.M. EST