Cabinet Room
12:58 P.M. EDT
Chancellor, thank you very much. Such a great honor to get to know you, to be with you. I want to thank all of the business leaders who have joined us to discuss a subject that’s very important to me — training our workforce for the 21st century, especially with respect to manufacturing jobs.
We’re working every day to bring back jobs to our country, and thousands and thousands are already coming back. You’re seeing it, you’re reading about it in the papers every single day. We want to make sure that we have the workforce development programs we need to ensure these jobs are being filled by American workers.
Germany and the United States have incredible opportunity to deepen our partnership as we continue to develop a strong workforce in both of our countries. Both Germany and the United States are pioneering job-training programs. Here in the United States, companies have created revolutionary high-tech and online courses. And, of course, for decades, Germany has been a model for highly successful apprenticeship — that’s a name I like, “apprentice” — apprenticeship programs. As a result, Germany’s youth unemployment rate is much lower than many of the other countries, especially the EU countries.
I welcome collaboration between our two countries and our industry leaders. We have some of our great industry leaders here, as you know, Chancellor. Great people. We must embrace new and effective job-training approaches, including online courses, high school curriculums, and private-sector investment that prepare people for trade, manufacturing, technology, and other really well-paying jobs and careers. These kinds of options can be a positive alternative to a four-year degree. So many people go to college, four years, they don’t like it, they’re not necessarily good at it, but they’re good at other things, like fixing engines and building things. I see it all the time, and I’ve seen it — when I went to school, I saw it. I sat next to people that weren’t necessarily good students but they could take an engine apart blindfolded.
Companies across the country have a chance to develop vocational training programs that will meet their growing needs and to help us achieve greater prosperity. The German apprenticeship model is one of the proven programs to developing a highly skilled workforce. Germany has been amazing at this, and I’m glad that the leaders of so many companies represented today have recently launched successful programs right here in the United States. And we need that because we’re training people as the jobs are pouring back in — and they are coming back in big league.
I believe that both countries will be stronger if we continue to deepen our bilateral cooperation on vocational training as we build off the best ideas, create the greatest opportunity for growth, and improve the lives of so many workers.
I want to thank everybody in the room. I want to thank my daughter Ivanka, who’s with us today. And mostly — and most of all, I want to thank — Chancellor, I want to thank you very much. It’s a great honor to have you in the White House. It’s a great honor to have you in the United States. And I look forward to spending time with you.
Thank you.
Maybe before the press leaves I’d like to ask some of the folks around — the great leaders of industry and business to introduce themselves, say a couple of words. And then we’ll get onto a little bit more private meeting, okay?
Ginni.
Great job.
That’s a great job. Thank you very much. Great job. Wow. Who wants to follow that? (Laughter.)
Great job. Great company too, by the way. Great company.
Marc.
Well, congratulations, and you’re going an incredible job. And nice to know you. And really, what you’ve done is just amazing. And let’s do that, let’s go for that 5 million. Okay? (Laughter.) Very good.
Ivanka, go ahead. Say something.
Klaus.
Thank you. Thank you, Klaus, very much.
MR. KRÜGER: Thank you, Mr. President and Mr. Vice President. From my side, thank you for inviting us. Yeah, it’s a great pleasure for us, for me. I would like to explain why, at BMW, we call the United States of America our second home.
I’m proud to be here because we were — nearly 25 years ago we were founding our biggest plant in the BMW Group network in South Carolina. We created 9,000 jobs, and we know that in the area around South Carolina, I know we created an additional 4 to 5 to 6, 7 jobs — the 9,000 people we employ at BMW in South Carolina.
We have invested heavily in the further education and training and vocational training. It was around about $200 million in the last five years, and I can commit that we will invest another $200 million into training in the next five years.
We are proud, as we are the biggest net exporter of vehicles in the United States. We have an annual net (inaudible) of $10 billion — exported from South Carolina. Seventy percent of our production is being exported. And I’m proud to be here because we have one apprentice who’s with us from — we have two main programs at Spartanburg, a BMW Scholar Program, which was founded in 2011 and has around about 100 people in the program, and they graduate and create — get a great job at BMW. We are very proud on the skillset — we need them for maintenance jobs.
And I would like to talk about as well employment of skilled veterans, which we are setting up with our dealers in the United States to have their highly qualified veterans working for BMW dealers in the future.
Well, I’ve seen your plant in South Carolina. It is incredible. And congratulations, that’s really great. Thank you.
MR. KRÜGER: Thank you. May I invite you for the 25th anniversary in June? (Laughter.)
I know I shouldn’t have said that. (Laughter.) You know what, if I can, I will do it.
MR.KRÜGER: Thank you very much.
I wish I could, but if I can I’ll do it. Absolutely.
Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you. Very nice.
I know this one. (Laughter.)
Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President.
Thank you very much, Mike. Appreciate it. Okay, thank you folks.
END1:18 P.M. EDT