East Room
2:26 P.M. EDT
Thank you, Melania, for your moving words and for your devotion — it’s a very deep devotion, I can tell you that — to our nation and its children.
Thank you also to members of Congress, my Cabinet, governors, members of Congress, state, local leaders, first responders, and healthcare professionals gathered here today.  We have some truly incredible people in this room — that I can tell you.
Most importantly, we acknowledge the families present who have lost a cherished loved one.  As you all know from personal experience, families, communities, and citizens across our country are currently dealing with the worst drug crisis in American history and even, if you really think about it, world history.  This is all throughout the world.  The fact is this is a worldwide problem.
This crisis of drug use, addiction, and overdose deaths in many years, it’s just been so long in the making.  Addressing it will require all of our effort and it will require us to confront the crisis in all of its very real complexity.
Last year, we lost at least 64,000 Americans to overdoses.  That’s 175 lost American lives per day.  That’s seven lost lives per hour in our country.  Drug overdoses are now the leading cause of unintentional death in the United States by far.
More people are dying from drug overdoses today than from gun homicides and motor vehicles combined.  Think of it — motor vehicle crashes, gun homicides, more people by far from drug overdoses.
These overdoses are driven by a massive increase in addiction to prescription painkillers, heroin, and other opioids.  Last year, almost 1 million Americans used heroin, and more than 11 million abused prescription opioids.  The United States is by far the largest consumer of these drugs, using more opioid pills per person than any other country by far in the world.  Opioid overdose deaths have quadrupled since 1999 and now account for the majority of fatal drug overdoses.  Who would have thought?
No part of our society — not young or old, rich or poor, urban or rural — has been spared this plague of drug addiction and this horrible, horrible situation that’s taken place with opioids.
In West Virginia — a truly great state, great people — there is a hospital nursery where one in every five babies spends its first days in agony.  Because these precious babies were exposed to opioids or other drugs in the womb, they endure nausea, pain, anxiety, sleeplessness, and trouble eating, just the same as adults undergoing detox.
Some of these children will likely lose one or both of their parents to drug addiction and overdose.  They will join the growing ranks of America’s opioid orphans.  Such beautiful, beautiful babies.
Beyond the shocking death toll, the terrible measure of the opioid crisis includes the families ripped apart and, for many communities, a generation of lost potential and opportunity.
This epidemic is a national health emergency, unlike many of us we’ve seen and what we’ve seen in our lifetimes.  Nobody has seen anything like what’s going on now.
As Americans, we cannot allow this to continue.  It is time to liberate our communities from this scourge of drug addiction.  Never been this way.  We can be the generation that ends the opioid epidemic.  We can do it.  (Applause.)  We can do it.
That is why, effective today, my administration is officially declaring the opioid crisis a national public health emergency under federal law, and why I am directing all executive agencies to use every appropriate emergency authority to fight the opioid crisis.  This marks a critical step in confronting the extraordinary challenge that we face.
As part of this emergency response, we will announce a new policy to overcome a restrictive 1970s-era rule that prevents states from providing care at certain treatment facilities with more than 16 beds for those suffering from drug addiction.  (Applause.)
A number of states have reached out to us asking for relief, and you should expect to see approvals that will unlock treatment for people in need.  And those approvals will come very, very fast.  Not like in the past — very, very quickly.
Ending the epidemic will require mobilization of government, local communities, and private organizations.  It will require the resolve of our entire country.
The scale of this crisis of addiction is why, soon after coming into office, I convened a presidential commission, headed by Governor Chris Christie, that has consulted with experts across America to listen, to learn, and report back on potential solutions.
We await the final report, which will come in next week.  And I know some of the report has already been seen, because I want to see it as quickly as possible.  And some of the things that they are recommending are common sense, but very, very important.  And they’re going to have a tremendous impact, believe me — tremendous impact.
Today, I will detail many of these aggressive steps with my administration, which we’ve already taken.  After we review and evaluate the commission’s findings, I will quickly move to implement approximate and appropriate recommendations.