Roosevelt Room
3:41 P.M. EST
Thank you very much.  As you probably have heard, and some of you have reported, a missile was launched a little while ago from North Korea.
I will only tell you that we will take care of it.  We have General Mattis in the room with us, and we’ve had a long discussion on it.  It is a situation that we will handle.
With that being said, Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi did not show up for our meeting today.  I’m not really that surprised.  We have a lot of differences.  They’re weak on crime, they’re weak on illegal immigration.  They want the illegal folks to come pouring into our border and a lot of problems are being caused, although we’ve stopped it to a large extent as much as you can without the law, which we’re going to get.
Before this meeting and before this missile launch, they’ve been weak on military.  In terms of spending, they’re very hard to get the military — they want it for a lot of other things, but the military is always secondary to them.  The military, to me, is number one.  We won’t be here without our powerful military, and we’re building it up stronger, bigger, better than ever before.  And General Mattis can testify to that.
Well, we are very far apart because our views on crime and our views on immigration and the military — so many are different.  But a lot of things have happened, even over the last two hours with respect to the missile launch.  We want our military funded and we want it funded now.  It’s going to be bigger, better, stronger — it already is — than ever before.  But we want to get going on that now.  So that is a difference, in all fairness, from this morning when I told them that we’re way, way far away.
And with that, I may just have General Mattis say just a couple of words about what he has found out.  General, do you want to say just a couple of little pieces of information to the media?
Thank you, General.  And we will take care of that situation.  Thank you all very much.  I appreciate it.  Thank you.
Nothing changed.  Nothing changed.  We have a very serious approach, but nothing changed.  We take it very seriously.
Well, if that happens, I would absolutely blame the Democrats.  If it happens, it’s going to be over illegals pouring into the country, crime pouring into the country, no border wall — which everybody wants.  I got elected partially because of the border wall.
If you look at the military, we want strong funding for the military.  They don’t.  So many things.  As an example, they want high taxes; we want to cut taxes.  We’re going to cut taxes.  We’re going to reform.  We’re going to simplify.  They want high taxes; we want low taxes.
So there’s a lot of big differences.  So we’ll see what happens as to shutdown.  We’ll see.  But right now, things have changed over the last two hours, because two hours ago, a missile was launched.  I think that will have a huge effect on Schumer and Pelosi — I think.  We’ll see.  We’re going to learn very soon.
They should be calling immediately and saying, “We want to see you.”  But probably they won’t, because nothing to them is important other than raising taxes.  That’s the only thing they like doing is raising taxes.
Thank you all very much.  Appreciate it.  Thank you.
END
3:50 P.M. EST