Rose Garden
1:46 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much. I just want to make an initial comment that the stock market just hit an all-time record high. It broke, for the first time ever, 23,000. So we’re very happy about that. I hope that Greece is going to be doing the same thing very soon. (Laughter.) I think they will.
But I’m honored to welcome Prime Minister Tsipras of Greece, and he’s a special man who’s done a very special job. We’re grateful to the Prime Minister and to his entire delegation for visiting us today at the White House.
Greece is a cradle of Western civilization — so true — of democracy, literature, philosophy, science, and so much else. America looks on that glorious heritage with wonder and with awe. You do indeed have a tremendous heritage, Mr. Prime Minister.
Perhaps for this reason, America’s friendship with the Greek people has been long and enduring. Thomas Jefferson wrote at the dawn of the modern Greek state that “no people sympathize more” with Greek patriots and “none offer more sincere and ardent prayers to heaven for their success” than the American people.
Jefferson’s words are true to this day.
Mr. Prime Minister, I’m proud to report that this past March, we celebrated Greek Independence Day right here at the White House. And that was great.
America and Greece draw on this common history and heritage and on our peoples’ abiding commitment to freedom and sovereignty in working together on great challenges and opportunities now before us. There are tremendous opportunities before us in so many different ways.
The Prime Minister and I have just concluded a very productive discussion on the cooperation between our two countries, including on matters of defense, energy, commerce, and trade.
I want to thank the Prime Minister and the Greek people for serving as gracious hosts to our U.S. naval forces at Souda Bay. I also commend Greece for being one of the few NATO countries currently spending at least 2 percent of GDP on defense.
My administration has also informed Congress of a potential sale to Greece to upgrade its F-16 aircraft. This agreement to strengthen the Hellenic Air Force is worth up to $2.4 billion and would generate thousands of American jobs.
We also are making great strides in our economic cooperation. The American people stand with the Greek people as they recover from the economic crisis that recently afflicted their nation. I have encouraged the Prime Minister in his continued implementation of reform and reform programs, and I have totally reaffirmed our support for a responsible debt-relief plan.
A strong and flourishing Greece provides immense opportunity for American trade, investment, and job creation. I thank the Prime Minister, his predecessors, and the Greek people for their efforts to return stability and prosperity to Greece.
On energy, we appreciate Greek contributions to European energy security through its support of the Trans Adriatic Pipeline, the Greece-Bulgaria Interconnector, and liquefied natural gas facilities that are capable of transporting diverse sources of energy to Europe, including potential liquefied natural gas exports from the United States, of which that particular route — and business is getting bigger and bigger and bigger, as you know. These initiatives make both our people safer and create good jobs for our hardworking citizens.
Finally, I am also very proud that the United States will be the “Honored Country” at next year’s International Fair in Greece. This historic business and trade exhibition will showcase American technology, enterprise, and innovation on the world stage. We look very much forward to sending a high-level delegation to attend this wonderful event.
Mr. Prime Minister, thank you again for being here today and for your partnership in addressing critical issues facing our countries. I look forward to having many productive discussions with you, and to having a very close and warm cooperation on a wide range of shared objectives. We will build upon our foundation of shared history and shared values to pursue a future of security, prosperity, and peace for both your nation and ours.
Mr. Prime Minister, thank you very much.
We’ll take a few questions. John, go ahead, please.
Thank you.
It’s a nice place.
Well, if you look at insurance companies and you take a good, strong look at the numbers, you’ll see, since the formation of Obamacare, they’re up 400 percent, 450 percent, 250 percent, 300 percent. They’ve made a fortune, the insurance companies.
So when I knocked out the hundreds of millions of dollars a month being paid back to the insurance companies by politicians, I must tell you, that wanted me to continue to pay this, I said I’m not going to do it. This is money that goes to the insurance companies to line their pockets, to raise up their stock prices. And they’ve had a record run. They’ve had an incredible run, and it’s not appropriate.
Obamacare is a disaster. It’s virtually dead. As far as I’m concerned, it really is dead and I predicted that a long time ago. It’s a concept that doesn’t work. And we are very close.
We feel we have the votes, and as soon as we’re finished with taxes, John — we really feel we have the votes to get block grants into the states, where the states can much better manage this money and much better take care of the people, rather than the federal government. The state block grants — we’ll do massive block grants into the various states so that the states can run the program.
So we feel we have the votes. We’re going to be doing that after the taxes. In the meantime, we’re involved with a budget and then after the budget — hopefully that gets approved — and after the budget, assuming we have the support of all the Republicans — because we’ll have no support from the Democrats or almost no support, because they’ve really become just obstructionists. They have no good policies, and frankly, they’re not good politicians but they’re very good obstructionists. And that’s what they do well — obstruct.
The number of nominees that I have approved by the Democrats are about half of what President Obama had. And when you look at that — and you can look at judicial appointments, look how slow that’s going. I’ll have 145 ultimately, which is a tremendous number. We’ll have 17 court of appeals appointments. But they’re not getting approved. They’re being slow-walked by Schumer and the group of Democrats that really — it’s really disgraceful. Even people that they know they’re going to approve, they take it right out to the end. They use every single minute, and I think it’s a very disgraceful situation.
But Obamacare is everything but dead. The people aren’t going to take it. They’re not going to take it. Alaska, they had over 200 percent increase. In Arizona, they were 116 percent — and I hear going up even higher. And the people aren’t going to take that any longer.
So I think we’re in great shape. I think we have the votes. And we’ll be doing that right after the largest tax cuts in the history of our country are approved, hopefully sometime in the very near future.
Yeah, essentially that would be the plan. Yes, block grants.
I wish I knew that before my speech. (Laughter.)
Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I might just add that a number of countries were a little bit nervous at the beginning. And I have very good relationships with the leaders of virtually every country I’ve dealt with. But the reason they were concerned was because I will not allow our country, the United States of America, to be taken advantage of by so many other countries all over the world.
If you look at our trade deficits — massive trade deficits with virtually every country. If you look at our jobs moving out to certain countries, and the companies are leaving and they’re firing the people, and the product is made elsewhere, and then it’s sold back into the United States. I’m not going to be allowing that.
So I can understand how certain countries and the leaders of certain countries may feel. But we’re just not going to allow the United States to be taken advantage of by other countries anymore. And there’s nothing we can do about that.
Thank you.
you have a question.
And, Mr. President, if I may: Why would you encourage the U.S. companies to invest in Greece? And how can the U.S. support the Greek efforts to fully turn the page, attract investments, and manage its debt? Thank you.
I can say that we have a great confidence in Greece. I think it’s a land of tremendous potential. I know many people are looking to invest in Greece. A lot of the problems are behind it. They’ve had some very good leadership. They’ve really made done a lot of — they’ve made a lot of difficult decisions.
We are helping, as you know, with a massive renovation of their air force and also of airplanes, generally, going to Greece. They’re looking at buying additional planes from Boeing. And we are helping — we’re very much involved with Greece and with helping Greece get back on its feet. We have a tremendous Greek population in this country, people whose heritage is Greece. And we love that country, special country, one of the most beautiful countries in the world. So I think it’s got great potential, and we are helping it along.
Okay. Jennifer, you want to go?
Sure.
I would say within those five you’ll probably get the answer. And I’ll be making this decision over the next fairly short period of time.
Honestly, I like them all.
I do. I have a great respect for all of them. But I’ll make a decision over the next very short period of time.
Sure.
Yes, we have been involved. And this is a short-term deal because we think, ultimately, block grants going to the states is going to be the answer. That’s a very good solution. We think it’s going to not only save money but give people much better healthcare with a very, very much smaller premium spike — and you look at what has gone on with that — also, much lower deductibles so they can use it.
Lamar has been working very, very hard with the Democratic — his colleagues on the other side, and Patty Murray is one of them, in particular. And they’re coming up and they’re fairly close to a short-term solution. The solution will be for about a year or two years, and it will get us over this intermediate hump because we have — as you probably know, we have — we either have the votes or we are very close to having the votes. And we will get the votes for having, really, the potential of having great healthcare in our country.
So they are indeed working, but it is a short-term solution so that we don’t have this very dangerous little period — including dangerous periods for insurance companies, by the way. For a period of one year, two years, we will have a very good solution. But we’re going to have a great solution, ultimately, for healthcare. And they are working together and I know very much what they’re doing.
Well, I’d just start by saying that I think it has a great role in stability in the area. We have a feeling that it will get stronger and stronger. Very stable people. It’s got the potential to be — once it gets over this tremendous financial hurdle that it’s in the process of working out, we think that there will be great stability in Greece, and militarily and in every way we look at it as very important, and very important to the United States.
We have great confidence in Greece as a nation. We have great confidence in what they’re doing relative to their military, because I know they have plans to do some terrific things. And we know they will be an ally for many, many years to come. You know, they’ve always been a very reliable ally, and we’ve always been very reliable to them. So we look forward to that for many years. We’re going to be friends for many, many years, and stability is very important. And we look upon that, with respect to Greece, as being a key.
Thank you.
Well, I want to thank everybody. And the Prime Minister came out here and he said, this is so beautiful. I said, this is the Rose Garden. And I think even the media likes the Rose Garden. (Laughter.) That’s hard to believe, but even the media likes it.
Mr. Prime Minister, it’s been a great honor having you, and we look forward to many, many years of friendship, working together. And keep up the good work.
Thank you very much.