Rose Garden1:10 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much. Your Majesty, thank you for being with us today. Very much appreciate it. This is our second meeting since my inauguration, but our first at the White House. A very special place, I can tell you that. I’ve gotten to know it well. Long hours. Very special.
It’s really an honor to welcome you here today. But before we begin, let me say a few words about recent events.
Yesterday, a chemical attack — a chemical attack that was so horrific, in Syria, against innocent people, including women, small children, and even beautiful little babies. Their deaths was an affront to humanity. These heinous actions by the Assad regime cannot be tolerate.
The United States stands with our allies across the globe to condemn this horrific attack and all other horrific attacks, for that matter.
Your Majesty, Jordanians are known for their legendary hospitality, and we will do our very best to be equally gracious hosts. They’re also known, however — I have to say this — for their fighting ability. And you are a great warrior, and we appreciate it. Thank you.
The historical ties and close friendship between our two countries dates back three-quarters of a century. In that time, the Middle East has faced many periods of crisis and unrest, perhaps never like it is today, however. Through them all, America has looked to Jordan as a valued partner, an advocate for the values of civilization, and a source of stability and hope.
I am deeply committed to preserving our strong relationship — which I will — and to strengthening America’s longstanding support for Jordan. And you do have tremendous support within our country, I can tell you that.
As we know, the Middle East — and the entire world — is faced with one of its gravest threats in many, many years. Since the earliest days of the campaign against ISIS, Jordan has been a staunch ally and partner, and we thank you for that. Jordanian servicemembers have made tremendous sacrifices in this battle against the enemies of civilization, and I want to thank all of them for their, really, just incredible courage. So many have been lost, and we pay homage. So many.
In King Abdullah, America is blessed with a thoughtful and determined partner. He is a man who has spent years commanding his country’s special forces. He really knows what being a soldier is, that I can tell you. And he knows how to fight. The King has been a leader in calling for a plan to defeat ISIS once and for all. And I’m with you on that. We’re both leaders on that, believe me. That’s what we speak about today, and that is what we are going to do. And it will be a shorter fight than a lot of people are thinking about, believe me. We’ve made tremendous strides as we discussed.
As you know, we had a very, very fine delegation come over from Egypt and also from Iraq, and they said more has been done in the last six weeks than has been done in years with the previous administration. And believe me, we’re going to keep it that way.
We will destroy ISIS and we will protect civilization. We have no choice — we will protect civilization. King Abdullah and I also discussed measures to combat the evil ideology that inspires ISIS and plagues our planet. In addition, we also acknowledge the vital role that Jordan has played in hosting refugees from the conflict in Syria. We have just announced that the United States will contribute additional funds to Jordan for humanitarian assistance. This aid will help countries like Jordan host refugees until it is safe for them to return home. The refugees want to return home. I know that from so many other instances. They want to return back to their home. And that’s a goal of any responsible refugee policy.
Finally, we discussed to advance the cause of peace in the Middle East, including peace between the Israelis and Palestinians. And I’m working very, very hard on trying to finally create peace between the Palestinians and Israel, and I think we’ll be successful. I hope to be successful, I can tell you that.
The King has been a really tireless advocate for a solution, and he’s going to help me with that and help me at the highest level. And we will be consulting with him closely in the days ahead.
King Abdullah, I want to take this opportunity to thank you for your partnership. Working together, the United States and Jordan can help bring peace and stability to the Middle East and, in fact, the entire world. And we will do that.
Thank you very, very much for being with us. (Applause.)
Thank you very much.
We’ll take a few questions. Julie Pace.
Well, I think the Obama administration had a great opportunity to solve this crisis a long time ago when he said the red line in the sand. And when he didn’t cross that line after making the threat, I think that set us back a long ways, not only in Syria, but in many other parts of the world, because it was a blank threat. I think it was something that was not one of our better days as a country.
So I do feel that, Julie. I feel it very strongly.
I now have responsibility, and I will have that responsibility and carry it very proudly, I will tell you that. It is now my responsibility. It was a great opportunity missed. As you know, I’ll be meeting with the President of China very soon, in Florida, and that’s another responsibility we have — and that’s called the country of North Korea. We have a big problem. We have somebody that is not doing the right thing. And that’s going to be my responsibility. But I’ll tell you, that responsibility could have been made a lot easier if it was handled years ago.
It crossed a lot of lines for me. When you kill innocent children, innocent babies — babies, little babies — with a chemical gas that is so lethal — people were shocked to hear what gas it was — that crosses many, many lines, beyond a red line. Many, many lines.
Thank you very much.
Thank you. John Yang (ph).
And, Your Majesty, I’d like to ask you, what gives you — this is now your second meeting with the President — what gives you the optimism that Mr. Trump will succeed in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict where so many others have failed before him to be a broker for peace?
I like to think of myself as a very flexible person. I don’t have to have one specific way, and if the world changes, I go the same way, I don’t change. Well, I do change and I am flexible, and I’m proud of that flexibility. And I will tell you, that attack on children yesterday had a big impact on me — big impact. That was a horrible, horrible thing. And I’ve been watching it and seeing it, and it doesn’t get any worse than that.
And I have that flexibility, and it’s very, very possible — and I will tell you, it’s already happened that my attitude toward Syria and Assad has changed very much. And if you look back over the last few weeks, there were other attacks using gas. You’re now talking about a whole different level.
And so, as you know, I would love to have never been in the Middle East. I would love to have never seen that whole big situation start. But once it started, we got out the wrong way, and ISIS formed in the vacuum, and lots of bad things happened. I will tell you, what happened yesterday is unacceptable to me.
Well, one of the things I think you’ve noticed about me is, militarily, I don’t like to say where I’m going and what I doing. And I watched past administrations say, we will attack at such and such a day at such and such an hour. And you, being a warrior — you would say, why are they saying that? And I’m sure you sat back in Jordan, and you said, why are they saying that?
I watched Mosul, where the past administration was saying, we will be attacking in four months. And I said, why are they doing that? Then a month goes by, and they say, we will be attacking in three months, and then two months, and then we will be attacking next week. And I’m saying, why are they doing that? And as you know, Mosul turned out to be a much harder fight than anyone thought, and a lot of people have been lost in that fight.
I’m not saying I’m doing anything one way or the other, but I’m certainly not going to be telling you, as much as I respect you, John. Thank you.
And I have to just say that the world is a mess. I inherited a mess. Whether it’s the Middle East, whether it’s North Korea, whether it’s so many other things, whether it’s in our country — horrible trade deals — I inherited a mess. We’re going to fix it. We’re going to fix it.
Okay.
And if I may, Mr. President, you know very well that the Iranian militias and Hezbollah has been propping the Syrian regime for a while — over a few years now. Will you go after them? What message will you give them today? And will you work with the Russians to ground the Syrian air force and to establish safe zones? Thank you.
The Iran deal made by the previous administration is one of the worst deals I have ever witnessed — and I’ve witnessed some beauties. It’s one of the worst deals I’ve ever witnessed. It should never have been made. It was totally one-sided against the United States, and, frankly, against much of the Middle East.
I will do whatever I have to do. They have a deal. It was, some people say, not done properly even in the form of its finalization. There was no vote from Congress. There was no real ratification. But I will do what I have to do with respect to the Iran deal. As far as ISIS is concerned, the United States will work with whoever it’s appropriate to work with to totally eradicate ISIS and other terrorists. And, by the way, ISIS is one group, but others have formed. Frankly, they’re all over the place. We will do what we have to do to eradicate terrorism.
You will see. They will have a message. You will see what the message will be. Okay? Thank you.
Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you.
END 1:35 P.M. EDT