Great Hall of the PeopleBeijing, China
12:57 P.M. CST
President Xi, I want to thank you for an incredible welcoming ceremony earlier this morning. It was a truly memorable and impressive, and something I will never forget.
Melania and I are honored to visit your country, with its ancient history, dynamic people, and thriving culture. I also want to thank you and Madam Peng for a tour that was given to us yesterday of the very majestic Forbidden City. Your people are proud of who they are and what they have built together, and your people are also very proud of you.
I want to congratulate you on the recent and very successful 19th Party Congress. Perhaps now more than ever, we have an opportunity to strengthen the relationship between our two countries and improve the lives of our citizens, as long as we stand together — with others, if necessary — against those who threaten our civilization. That threat will never happen. It doesn’t even have a chance.
As I said in my address yesterday in Seoul, the entire civilized world must unite to confront the North Korean menace. And the entire world is watching us right now.
Today, President Xi — we discussed our mutual commitment to the complete denuclearization of North Korea. We agreed not to replicate failed approaches of the past — and there were many. We agreed on the need to fully implement all U.N. Security Council resolutions on North Korea and to increase economic pressure until North Korea abandons its reckless and dangerous path.
All responsible nations must join together to stop arming and financing — and even trading with — the murderous North Korean regime. Together, we have in our power to finally liberate this region and the world from this very serious nuclear menace. But it will require collective action, collective strength, and collective devotion to winning the peace.
In order to create a more secure future for all and to protect our citizens from extremism and terrorism, President Xi and I also committed to working toward a peaceful future for Afghanistan. Terrorists are a threat to all of humanity, and we will stop radical Islamic terrorism.
The United States and China also face many challenges within our borders. Every year, drug trafficking destroys millions and millions of lives. Today, President Xi and I discussed ways we can enhance coordination to better counter the deadly drug trade and to stop the lethal flow of poisonous drugs into our countries and into our communities. A special emphasis will be placed on the new phenomena: fentanyl — destroying lives by the millions. We’re going to be focusing on it very strongly, the President and myself.
In addition to improving the safety and security of our citizens, President Xi and I discussed improving our economic relationship. We want a vibrant trade relationship with China. We also want a fair and reciprocal one. Today, I discussed with President Xi the chronic imbalance in our relationship as it pertains to trade, and the concrete steps that we’ll jointly take to solve the problem of the massive trade distortion.
This includes addressing China’s market access restrictions and technology transfer requirements, which prevent American companies from being able to fairly compete within China. The United States is committed to protecting the intellectual property of our companies and providing a level playing field for our workers. At the same time, our relationship with you and China is a very important one to me and to all of the people of our country. And just by looking at the tremendous, incredible, job-producing agreements just signed by those major companies, we’re off to a very, very good start.
As part of our commitment to regional stability and peace, the United States also continues to advocate for reforms that advance economic freedom, individual rights, and the rule of law.
The United States, working with China and other regional partners, has an incredible opportunity to advance the cause of peace, security, and prosperity all across the world. It’s a very special time, and we do indeed have that very, very special opportunity. A great responsibility has been placed on our shoulders, President — it’s truly a great responsibility — and I hope we can rise to the occasion and help our countries and our citizens reach their highest destinies and their fullest potentials.
I want to thank you again — you’re a very special man — for your gracious hospitality. I send my warmest regards to your citizens. I honor their heritage and celebrate their great, great possibilities and potential for the future.
In the coming months and years, I look forward to building an even stronger relationship between our two countries — China and the United States of America — and even closer friendships and relationships between the people of our countries.
Mr. President, thank you very much. Thank you. (Applause.)
END 1:12 P.M. CST