Rose Garden
1:51 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much.  Please sit.  I’m honored to welcome Prime Minister Lee of Singapore to the White House today.  Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.
I want to thank you for visiting us, and your entire group of very, very talented people that we’re dealing with.  Our friendship has never been stronger than it is right now.
Singapore is one of our closest strategic partners in Asia.  The United States is proud of the deep and enduring partnership we have built since Singapore gained its independence more than half-a-century ago.
Singapore’s rapid development from a poor island nation to an economic powerhouse, under the leadership of the Prime Minister’s great father — he was a great man; he really was a great man — has been one of the incredible economic and political achievements of the past 50 years.
Singapore’s strong commitment to the rule of law, to international [intellectual] property protections, and to the principles of fair and reciprocal — one of my favorite words when it comes to trade — has made the country a magnet for business.  Today, over 4,000 American companies are operating in Singapore, and we have a very large trading relationship with Singapore.
Earlier today, the Prime Minister and I witnessed a contract signing between Singapore Airlines — a great airline — and Boeing worth more than $13.8 billion.  I want to thank the Singaporean people for their faith in the American engineering and American workers.  And our American workers deliver the best product, by far.  Our robust partnership extends far beyond economic cooperation and trade.
Mr. Prime Minister, as your father rightly noted, “The development of the economy is very important, but equally important is the development of the nature of our society.”  So true.
The United States and Singapore share a profound belief in a society built on a foundation of law.  A nation ruled by law provides the greatest security for the rights of citizens and the best path to shared and lasting prosperity.  Both the United States and Singapore understand the unmatched power of private enterprise to uplift the human condition.  These values have made our societies stronger, sustained our partnership through the Cold War, and laid a critical foundation for our lasting relationship today.
Our common values and interests have led to a vital security relationship.  Throughout Southeast Asia, the United States and Singapore are currently working to enhance the capacity of law enforcement, fight terrorism, and bolster cyber defenses.  Our two nations also share an unwavering commitment to countering the North Korean threat and promoting freedom of navigation in the South China Sea.
Singapore was the first Southeast Asian nation to join the coalition to defeat ISIS.  That was very far thinking.  You were there before most.  More than 1,000 of its military personnel train here in the United States every single year.
When Hurricane Harvey struck our Gulf Coast in late August, Singapore deployed its own helicopters to help transport personnel and critical resources to areas in need.  And the Prime Minister told me that and called me, and made that request himself.  It was a great help, and we want to thank you very much — the use of your helicopters.
When the American Navy destroyer, the USS John McCain, suffered a collision at the sea, Singapore came to our immediate assistance.  On behalf of all Americans, I want to thank the Prime Minister and the people of Singapore for their support, which has been tremendous, and for their friendship.
In a few weeks, I will attend the U.S.-ASEAN Summit in the Philippines, where we will celebrate the 40th anniversary of U.S.-ASEAN relations.  I look forward to continuing our discussions at this year’s summit and to seeing the great things Singapore will accomplish as ASEAN chair in 2018.  In other words, this great gathering will take place in Singapore in 2018.
Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for your continuing partnership and leadership.  The U.S.-Singapore relationship has made both of our people far more prosperous and secure, and our values have made us longstanding friends.  We are fortunate to have such a wonderful and loyal partner.  Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, everybody.
END
2:03 P.M. EDT