Rose Garden
1:56 P.M. EDT
Good afternoon.  I’m greatly honored to welcome President Mariano Rajoy of Spain, and it’s a great honor to have you at the White House.  Thank you very much.
We’ve just concluded a very productive conversation on a crucial range of economic and security issues.
Before we begin, I’d like to take a moment to send America’s hearts and prayers to the people of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.  Both have been devastated — and I mean absolutely devastated — by Hurricane Maria, and we’re doing everything in our power to help the hard-hit people of both places, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.  And a massive effort is underway, and we have been really treated very, very nicely by the governor and by everybody else.  They know how hard we’re working and what a good job we’re doing.
As we speak, FEMA, our great first responders, and all available federal resources, including the military, are being marshaled to save lives, protect families, and begin a long and very, very difficult restoration process.  I have directed all relevant departments and agencies to assist in the response and recovery effort.
As Governor Rosselló just told me this morning, the entire federal workforce is doing great work in Puerto Rico, and I appreciated his saying it.  And he’s saying it to anybody that will listen.  Our team has been incredible after having gone through Texas and then Florida, with other stops along the way.  And he further went on and he said, “And through the Trump administration’s leadership, the relationship between FEMA and my team is very, very strong.”  I will be going to Puerto Rico on Tuesday.  I’ll also be going to the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Over the last several weeks our nation has been tested by the destructive force of Mother Nature, but we will respond to it with an even mightier force:  the resolve of the American spirit.  Texas, Louisiana, and Florida are in really good shape and moving along well.  We thank all of the first responders and volunteers who have risked their lives.  And that’s what they did — they risked their lives.
To all of those impacted by the trouble and these horrible hurricanes and storms that have affected and impacted our country, I thank you.  The recovery process will be a very, very difficult one.  We will get through this, and we will get through it together.  We will be stronger.  We will be bigger.  We will be better.  Thank you very much.
The United States and Spain are great friends and close allies.  Our bonds, culture, and commerce go back many centuries. Our schools teach American children about Spain’s history of exploration.  Our museums treasure beautiful Spanish works of art.  And your country’s contributions to architecture, music, and film are admired all over the world.  It’s a greatly admired country.  The deep relationship between our two people is a strong foundation for lasting cooperation.
On behalf of the American people, I want to express our support and extend our prayers to all of those affected by the vile terror attack in Spain last month.  I want to assure the people of Spain that America stands with you in confronting this evil that threatens all of humanity.  We will continue to deny the terrorists their funding, their territory, and any form of support for their wicked ideology.
In this common fight, America greatly appreciates Spain’s contribution to the coalition to defeat ISIS.  Spanish troops and police have trained more than 30,000 members of the Iraqi security forces.  We also thank the Spanish people for being such gracious hosts to the American servicemembers stationed at Spanish bases.
The United States and Spain together face many critical dangers and challenges, from North Korea, to Iran, to Venezuela. We thank Spain for its recent decision to expel its North Korean ambassador and for standing with us in our efforts to isolate the brutal North Korean regime.
It is time for all responsible nations to join forces to isolate the North Korean menace.  North Korean nuclear weapons and missile development threaten the entire world with unthinkable loss of life.  All nations must act now to ensure the regime’s complete denuclearization.
I appreciate the United Nations Security Council voting twice, unanimously — 15 to nothing, twice — to adopt hard-hitting resolutions against North Korea.  I have recently issued tough new sanctions against those who do business with this outlaw regime, and I applaud China’s latest action to restrict its trade with North Korea.  And, in particular, I applaud China for breaking off all banking relationships with North Korea — something that people would have thought unthinkable even two months ago.  I want to thank President Xi.
Here, in the Western Hemisphere, we have seen the heartbreaking tragedy of Maduro’s socialist rule in Venezuela.  Spain has been especially helpful in promoting the interests and wellbeing of the Venezuelan people, and we thank you for your efforts.
We hope our friends in the EU will soon follow the United States, Canada, and many Latin American nations in sanctioning the Maduro regime.  We need everybody involved.  The citizens of Venezuela have endured immense suffering, poverty, starvation, and dangerous political unrest under Maduro’s oppressive socialist regime.
Together, Spain and the United States hope for peace, for the restoration of democracy, and for the release of all political prisoners.  Wherever socialism spreads, misery follows.  The people of Venezuela deserve a future of freedom.  These are great people.
In the economic arena, we support trade that benefits both Spain and the United States, which means it must be fair and it must be reciprocal — such an important word.  It hasn’t been used very much in the United States — “reciprocal.”  Spain is the 10th largest investor in the United States, and I commend Spanish business leaders for their confidence in America and the American worker.  And considering the fact that our stock market has just hit all-time highs, I think they probably like the United States very much right now.
This is a time for both tremendous opportunity for our world, but also serious dangers.  As I said at the United Nations, which future really is up to us.  If we empower our citizens, serve their needs, and appeal to all that is best in the human spirit, then I have no doubt we will succeed like never, ever before.
Mr. President, I look forward to working with you to build this future of prosperity and peace for both Spain and for the United States of America.  Thank you very much.  Thank you
Thank you very much.
Steve Holland, please.  Reuters.  Don’t get nervous, Steve.  (Laughter.)
Well, I wasn’t preoccupied with the NFL.  I was ashamed of what was taking place, because to me that was a very important moment.  I don’t think you can disrespect our country, our flag, our national anthem.  To me, the NFL situation is a very important situation.  I’ve heard that before about was I preoccupied.  Not at all.  Not at all.  I have plenty of time on my hands.  All I do is work.
And to be honest with you, that’s an important function of working.  It’s called respect for our country.  Many people have died — many, many people.  Many people are so horribly injured.  I was at Walter Reed Hospital recently, and I saw so many great young people, and they’re missing legs and they’re missing arms.  And they’ve been so badly injured.  And they were fighting for our country.  They were fighting for our flag.  They were fighting for our national anthem.  And for people to disrespect that by kneeling during the playing of our national anthem I think is disgraceful.
So I will also say that — again, I read you part of his quote — but the Governor of Puerto Rico is so thankful for the great job that we’re doing.  We did a great job in Texas, a great job in Florida, a great job in Louisiana.  We hit little pieces of Georgia and Alabama.  And frankly, we’re doing — and it’s the most difficult job because it’s on the island.  It’s on an island in the middle of the ocean.  It’s out in the ocean.  You can’t just drive your trucks there from other states.
And the Governor said we are doing a great job.  In fact, he thanked me specifically for FEMA and all of the first responders in Puerto Rico.  And we’re also mentioning with that the U.S. Virgin Islands.  It was devastated.  So we are totally focused on that.
But at the same time, it doesn’t take me long to put out a wrong, and maybe we’ll get it right.  I think it’s a very important thing for the NFL to not allow people to kneel during the playing of our national anthem, to respect our country and to respect our flag.
Okay?  Thank you.
Well, I think that Spain is a great country and it should remain united.  We’re dealing with a great, great country, and it should remain united.
I’ve been watching that unfold, but it’s actually been unfolding for centuries.  And I think that nobody knows if they’re going to have a vote.  I think the President would say they’re not going to have a vote.  But I think that the people would be very much opposed to that.
I can say only speaking for myself, I would like to see Spain continue to be united.
Thank you.  Major Garrett.  Yes, CBS.
Yes, hi.
And on North Korea, very quickly, the Foreign Minister said you have declared, effectively, war on North Korea.  And the North Korean government has threatened to shoot down or aim at American planes flying in international airspace.  I would like your reaction to that.
Okay, well, I’ll answer the second one first.  We’re totally prepared for the second option; not a preferred option.  But if we take that option, it will be devastating –I can tell you that — devastating for North Korea.  That’s called the military option.  If we have to take it, we will.
He’s acting very badly.  He’s saying things that should never, ever be said.  And we’re replying to those things, but it’s a reply.  It’s not an original statement; it’s a reply.  But the things that he said over the last year — and if you look back, the things that he said to past administrations — North Korea is a situation that should have been handled 25 years ago, 20 years ago, 15 years ago, 10 years ago, and five years ago, and it could have been handled much more easily.
You had various administrations — many administrations which left me a mess.  But I’ll fix the mess.  So we’ll see what happens with North Korea.
As far as Puerto Rico is concerned, I think just the opposite.  We have had tremendous reviews from government officials, as we have in Texas and Louisiana, and as we have in Florida, as you know, from Governor Scott and Greg Abbott.  Great governors.  And this morning, the governor made incredible statements about how well we’re doing.
We understand it’s a disaster; it’s a disaster that just happened.  The grid was in bad shape before the storm.  And Puerto Rico didn’t get hit by one hurricane, it got hit by two hurricanes, and they were among the biggest we’ve ever seen — with the second one being even worse.  I mean, the second one hit Puerto Rico as a Category 5.  I don’t believe anybody has ever seen that happen before — hit land with that kind of velocity.
The governor has been extremely generous and I appreciated it.  We right now have our top people from FEMA, and they have been there.  We’re are unloading, on an hourly basis, massive loads of water and food and supplies for Puerto Rico.
And this isn’t like Florida where we can go right up the spine, or like Texas where we go right down the middle and we distribute.  This is a thing called the Atlantic Ocean.  This is tough stuff.
The governor has been so incredible in his statements about the job we’re doing.  We’re doing a great job.  Don’t forget, their police force has been decimated because many of the police in Puerto Rico have lost their homes.  So, sure, they want to be police but they also want to be able to watch their families and find their families, and they have to live.  So we’re also very much involved in security in Puerto Rico.
So everybody has said it’s amazing the job that we’ve done in Puerto Rico.  We’re very proud of it.  And I’m going there on Tuesday.  Now, with all of that being said, record — if you look at the amount of water dropped on that island, between the two hurricanes — and the first they just barely got by with, but they were devastated.  And the second was a complete wipeout.  I mean, this was a place that was destroyed.
So I think we’ve done a really good job.  We’re continuing to — we are literally unloading, on an hourly basis, water, food, supplies.  We have our top people from FEMA and our first responders and everybody else.  We’re going to be deploying Navy ships — they’ve already been deployed.  And we are going to do far more than anybody else would ever be able to do.  And it’s being recognized as such, but it is a tough situation.
Would you have a question or the President?
Well, I think the people of Catalonia have been talking about this for a long time.  But I bet you if you had accurate numbers and accurate polling, you’d find that they love their country, they love Spain, and they wouldn’t leave.  So I’m just for united Spain.
I speak as the President of the United States, as somebody that has great respect for your President, and also has really great respect for your country.  I really think the people of Catalonia would stay with Spain.  I think it would be foolish not to.  Because you’re talking about staying with a truly great, beautiful, and very historic country.
Mr. President, thank you very much.  Thank you.
END
2:27 P.M. EDT