Blue HouseSeoul, Republic of Korea
8:19 P.M. KST
Well, thank you very much. And this is an exciting time, and we’re going to have an exciting day tomorrow, for many reasons that people will find out, in addition to the fact I look forward to making a — hopefully — very comprehensive speech before you and the leaders of Korea. And that will be really something that I’m representing the American people. The relationship that we have is a fantastic one.
And I have to say, President Moon and First Lady Kim, thank you very much. I greatly appreciate your hosting Melania and myself on our first trip to the very beautiful Republic of Korea.
We were honored to welcome you to the White House this past summer, and now it’s a tremendous honor to visit your magnificent home — and magnificent it is, to see this beautiful land, and to meet the remarkable people of South Korea.
The partnership between our two nations and our two people is deep and enduring. We have been proud to stand by your side for many decades as an unwavering friend and a loyal ally. And you have never had a time where this ally has been more loyal or stood by your side more than right now.
Here in South Korea, the people built a free, sovereign, and democratic republic. Through their resilience and sacrifice and determination, they became the chief architects of the future. Today, the course of this great nation is charted solely by the free people of South Korea.
Mr. President, your remarkable success truly demonstrates what is possible when people are free to follow their dreams, pursue their passions, and hope for a better future for their children.
Tonight, we celebrate South Korea’s success and affirm our close and abiding bonds of friendship.
Together, our nations remind the world of the boundless potential of societies that choose freedom over tyranny, and who set the free. And we will free, and we will sacrifice, and we will hope, and we will make things beautiful, especially the aspiration of your people.
As true partners, we have remained faithful friends through periods of challenge and opportunity. And that’s what we have now, is great opportunity. We will continue to support each other in the years ahead.
In that spirit, I would like to offer a toast to President Moon and First Lady Kim, and to the people of South Korea: May freedom and peace flourish on this peninsula. In our time, and for generations to come, this will be a special evening and a special time. May our bonds of friendship continue to deepen, and may the cherished hopes of our people and the people across the region soon be realized.
Mr. President, may your dreams come true. It’s an honor to be with you. Thank you very much.
(A toast is offered.)
END 8:35 P.M. KST