Presidential Palace
Hanoi, Vietnam
10:27 A.M. ICT
Thank you very much, President Quang.  And thank you for your tremendous hospitality during my first visit to Vietnam.  It is a pleasure to be with you right here in Hanoi.
On behalf of the entire American delegation, I want to thank the Vietnamese people for their warm welcome, and to reaffirm the strong friendship and growing partnership between our two nations.
Travelers from all around the world, including many Americans, come to Vietnam each year to admire your magnificent limestone mountains, cycle through your many winding hillsides, or swim in the majestic Ha Long Bay.
Your nation’s magnificence brings different people together from around the world in shared appreciation of the great beauty and splendor of your wonderful country.  Over the past two decades, our two nations have come together to find common purpose based on common interests.  And that’s what’s happening.  It is those crucial bonds we are here to reaffirm today.
In May, the United States transferred the U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Morgenthau to the people and country of Vietnam.  Named for U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau Jr., this vessel once patrolled the coasts of Vietnam during the Vietnam War.  Today, the same American vessel, a gift between partners, is sailing the waters of the Pacific on its way to patrol these coasts for the people of Vietnam.
This month we mark Veterans Day in the United States.  And out of war and conflict, we have achieved a deep friendship, partnership, and we have achieved peace.  Bound by mutual respect and common experience, our veterans laid the foundation for that achievement between our nations.
Our decades-long joint humanitarian efforts with the Vietnamese people and government to account for and recover personnel still missing — so important to us — from the war honors these horrors of this horrendous war.  We want our servicemembers support — and we give total support to the families, and we strengthen the foundation of our comprehensive partnership.  That is so important to us.
In the spirit of our friendship, I want to congratulate President Quang for hosting a very successful APEC Leaders Meeting this week in Da Nang.  Congratulations.  You did a fantastic job.  Thank you.
As I stated in my address to the APEC CEO Summit on Friday, the United States is committed to a free and open Indo-Pacific, where strong, independent nations respect each other’s sovereignty, uphold the rule of law, and advance responsible commerce.  We want our partners in the Indo-Pacific to be proud and self-reliant, not proxies or satellites.
We look forward to achieving a bilateral trade agreement with partners who abide by the principles of fair and reciprocal trade — two very important words:  fair and reciprocal.  It hasn’t been that way for the United States almost at all.  And we’re changing that, and we’re changing it rapidly.  For trade to work, all countries must play by the rules.
I am encouraged that Vietnam has recently become the fastest growing export market to the United States.
Mr. President, I applaud your efforts to implement economic reforms and increase Vietnam’s trade and investment in all directions.  The United States is enthusiastic about reforms that promote economic prosperity for all Vietnamese citizens, as we look to your growing middle class as a key market for American goods and services.  We just had a great discussion about American goods and services coming in to Vietnam.  Two-way street.
I am confident that American energy, agriculture, financial services, aviation, digital commerce, and defense products are able to meet all of your many commercial needs — and, in fact, not only meet them, but what we do is better than anybody else.
Moving forward, I welcome Vietnam’s commitment to eliminating trade barriers for U.S. agricultural products.  It’s very important.  We must ensure that American farmers and all American companies, especially those in digital services and e-commerce, can compete on a level playing field.  And we look forward to working with you to combat predatory and unfair trade practices in the region.
On security issues, we continue to work with our Vietnamese partners and with partners across the region on a range of challenges, including maritime security, counterterrorism, human and drug trafficking, cybercrime, and disease prevention.
Later today, I will travel to the Philippines, where I will discuss many of these issues at the U.S.-ASEAN Summit and the East Asia Summit.  The ASEAN Summit is going to be something, I think, very, very special.  I look forward to attending.
We will also discuss the growing threat from North Korea.  As I said in my speech to the Republic of Korea’s National Assembly:  All responsible nations must act now to ensure that North Korea’s rogue regime stops threatening the world with unthinkable loss of life.
Safety and security are goals that should unite all civilized nations.  We want progress, not provocation.  I mean, we have been provoked; the world has been provoked.  We don’t want that.  We want stability, not chaos.  And we want peace, not war.
Mr. President, thank you for being such a gracious host during my time right here in Vietnam.  I toured areas of Vietnam, and it is magnificent what’s happening.
Over the past two decades, our nations have continued to grow closer in advancing our shared interests.  The history of our two nations reveals the possibilities for peace and progress in our world.  Moving forward as partners, we will achieve great prosperity and success for the American people and for the Vietnamese people.
I thank you very much.  Thank you.  (Applause.)
That’s true.
What I said there, I’m surprised that there’s any conflict on this.  What I said there is that I believe he believes that, and that’s very important for somebody to believe.  I believe that he feels that he and Russia did not meddle in the election.
As to whether I believe it or not, I’m with our agencies, especially as currently constituted with their leadership.  I believe in our intel agencies, our intelligence agencies.  I’ve worked with them very strongly.  There weren’t seventeen as was previously reported; there were actually four.  But they were saying there was seventeen; there were actually four.  But as currently led by fine people, I believe very much in our intelligence agencies.
Now, at the same time, I want to be able — because I think it’s very important — to get along with Russia, to get along with China, to get along with Vietnam, to get along with lots of countries, because we have a lot of things we have to solve.  And, frankly, Russia and China in particular can help us with the North Korea problem, which is one of our truly great problems.
So I’m not looking to stand and start arguing with somebody when there’s reporters all around and cameras recording and seeing our conversation.  I think it was very obvious to everybody.  I believe that President Putin really feels — and he feels strongly — that he did not meddle in our election.  What he believes is what he believes.
What I believe is that we have to get to work.  And I think everybody understood this that heard the answer.  We have to get to work to solve Syria, to solve North Korea, to solve Ukraine, to solve terrorism.
And, you know, people don’t realize Russia has been very, very heavily sanctioned.  They were sanctioned at a very high level, and that took place very recently.  It’s now time to get back to healing a world that is shattered and broken.  Those are very important things.  And I feel that having Russia in a friendly posture, as opposed to always fighting with them, is an asset to the world and an asset to our country, not a liability.
And, by the way, Hillary Clinton had the reset button.  She wanted to get back together with Russia.  She even spelled “reset” wrong.  That’s how it started, and then it got worse.
President Obama wanted to get along with Russia, but the chemistry wasn’t there.  Getting along with other nations is a good thing, not a bad thing — believe me.  It’s a good thing, not a bad thing.
Okay, second.
Steve, I think anything is a possibility.  Strange things happen in life.  That might be a strange thing to happen, but it’s certainly a possibility.  If that did happen, it would be a good thing for — I can tell you — for North Korea.  But it would also be good for lots of other places, and it would be good for the world.
So, certainly, it is something that could happen.  I don’t know that it will, but it would be very, very nice if it did.