Roosevelt Room
11:10 A.M. EDT
Good morning, everybody. Thank you very much. It’s my pleasure to welcome such incredible women, including my daughter —
— and unbelievable entrepreneurs and small business leaders to the White House. And also, Linda, thank you very much. You’ve been doing an amazing job — I hear working 24 hours a day is what the word is. (Laughter.) Good. I’m not surprised.
I’m not surprised. And I want to thankLinda for joining us today. She’s doing a fantastic job leading the Small Business Administration, and she herself, as you know, is a great, great success story and a woman entrepreneur at the highest level. So thank you very much, Linda.
Empowering and promoting women in business is an absolute priority in the Trump administration because I know how crucial women are as job creators, role models, and leaders all throughout our communities.
As we conclude Women’s History Month, I am thrilled that we can meet to discuss how we can continue this important mission. You all have incredible stories. Many of you started businesses from scratch, with very, very limited resources — sounds like I’m right about you, Lisa, right? (Laughter.) But you had the grit and determination to make your dreams become a reality, right?
It’s fantastic. Now you’re providing hundreds of jobs across our country — thousands of jobs. And you’re really an inspiration to everybody — and that’s men and women, believe me. A lot of men out there, they’re not doing what you’re able to do.
Today, women are the primary source of income in 40 percent of American households with children under the age of 15. We also know that companies that promote women to senior leadership roles realize significantly better profits, according to statistics, than their competitors. I wouldn’t have known that. Dina, how does that work? Tell me. That’s pretty impressive.
We must ensure that our economy is a place where women can work and thrive. We will continue to address the barriers faced by women professionals and entrepreneurs, including access to capital, access to markets, and access to networks. We will make it very easy. It’s going to be a lot easier. You do an amazing job. And for a while it was a very, very tough — almost impossible — job.
My administration will also continue to advocate for policies that support working families, including making childcare more affordable and accessible. That’s something that Ivanka Trump — now Ivanka Trump Kushner — that you really have been working on and feel so strongly about — my daughter. I actually talked about it a lot during the campaign, and Ivanka was right up front. I also want to recognize Ivanka for helping to lead a national initiative to promote women business leaders and entrepreneurs. And the Chancellor of Germany is going to — has asked Ivanka to go to Germany, and she’ll be working on similar issues with Chancellor Merkel. So that will be very exciting for you. That’s going to happen very soon. It’s a very great honor.
I look forward to hearing your stories and discussing how we can work together to help all of your dreams come true and make it easier for those dreams to come true.
And with that, I’m going to turn it over to our great Vice President, Mike Pence. And thank you, Mike, for being here.
Great. And you’ve done a great job.
Thank you very much. Lisa.
Thank you very much. And I hear that Lisa Phillips has an amazing story to tell. (Laughter.) Can you tell it in front of all these cameras? (Laughter.) I hear that you have one of the really amazing stories to tell. So you want me to ask the press to leave? I will. (Laughter.)
Go ahead.
Thank you. Great job. You’ve done a fantastic job. Thank you, Lisa.
That’s great.
Thank you, Lisa. Thank you very much.
MS. POPE-WELLS: That’s a great story. My name is Amy Pope-Wells. I’m the owner of Link Staffing, but I also own another company called Tire Diva. There’s not too many females in the tire business — (inaudible).
Great name, actually. (Laughter.)
MS. POPE-WELLS: Thank you, Mr. President. You know, coming here today, I was thinking about what I would say, and my businesses are my passion, but we would never have a place at this table if it wasn’t for you. Opening up your new administration is doing so much, and I need you to know that we’re taking that to our communities.
One of the things that happened for me was — part of my story is, I was a nurse by graduation, and I spent years — and that was the status quo in the community that I lived in, but something inside of me wanted to do more. And I’ll never forget, my first job was an executive job, flying across the United States, going hospital to hospital, looking at the challenges and the problems, and I did that for 15 years, and it just felt like I was banging my head up against a wall, but I knew there was so much more opportunity.
So I went and started my own company. I said, you know what, I’ll just be a boutique firm, but you can’t keep that inside. So I started my business and grew it. Started partnering with companies like Walmart and Starbucks, and just working myself to the bone to service them. And everybody was like, why are you doing that? And it’s like, because it’s the right thing to do. I’m giving hundreds of people jobs.
And that led those relationships over to starting Tire Diva. What I did was I took that, and I started the Women’s Empowerment Foundation three years ago, and I would bring — I bring 75 to 100, give or take, women that come, and I want them to have that inspiration. And sometimes it’s difficult. But being here at this table gives me the inspiration to keep going, because I want to share that and make people feel empowered. You always have to work hard, so there’s no quick, easy way to do it. But if you can provide a guide, that’s where it’s at, you know?
Good job.
MS. POPE-WELLS: Thank you.
Great enthusiasm. Good. Thank you.
Yes, Lili.
Thank you, Lili, very much. Thank you.
You’ve done a great job. Thank you very much.
Linda, would you like to say something?
Thank you, Linda. Great job.
Thank you. Thanks so very much.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
That’s great. Great.
Where are you based?
That’s wonderful. Great job, thank you. Thanks, Suzie.
Thank you very much. That sounds fantastic. Thank you.
Okay, folks, thank you. (Laughter.)
Oh, the most important —
Stay for Jessica.
Great job. Great job, Jessica. Thank you.
Thank you very much, everybody.
END11:31 A.M. EDT