Rose Garden
11:04 A.M. EDT
Thank you very much. Friends and distinguished guests, welcome to the White House. We are gathered here today for a truly momentous occasion in our democracy — the swearing-in of a United States Supreme Court justice.
In particular, I’m greatly honored to welcome to these grounds every sitting justice of the United States Supreme Court. Welcome. (Applause.) Thank you.
Mr. Chief Justice, and fellow justices, it’s a privilege to have you here, to join in this historic moment on this very beautiful spring day in the Rose Garden. Spring is really the perfect backdrop for this joyful gathering of friends, because, together, we are in a process of reviewing and renewing, and also rebuilding, our country. A new optimism is sweeping across our land, and a new faith in America is filling our hearts and lifting our sights.
I’d also like to recognize Senator Cory Gardner, Mike Lee — where’s Mike? He’s around here someplace — thank you. And Mike Crapo. Good. Hi, Mike. Thank you very much, and for all your work. Thank you. (Applause.) And although he could not be here today, I especially want to express our gratitude to Senator Mitch McConnell for all that he did to make this achievement possible. So, thank you, Mitch. (Applause.)
I’d also like to give my appreciation to Chairman Grassley for conducting such a fair and professional confirmation. Senator Grassley. Where is Senator Grassley? (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you, Senator. Finally, a profound thank you to Louise Gorsuch, and to all of the Gorsuch family. Thank you. (Applause.) And, Louise, I’ve heard it firsthand, I know what a total inspiration you are to your husband and to your entire family. So thank you very much. Fantastic. Thank you very much. (Applause.)
We are here to celebrate history — the taking of the judicial oath by the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Neil Gorsuch. Justice Gorsuch, I just want to congratulate you and your entire family. It’s something so special. In fact, I’ve always heard that the most important thing that a President of the United States does is appoint people — hopefully great people like this appointment — to the United States Supreme Court. And I can say this is a great honor. (Applause.) And I got it done in the first 100 days — that’s even nice. (Laughter.) You think that’s easy?
This ceremony has special meaning as Justice Gorsuch is filling the seat of one of the greatest Supreme Court judges in American history, and that’s Antonin Scalia, who is a terrific — was a terrific judge and a terrific person. Justice Scalia was a patriot who revered our Constitution. He was beloved by many, very many, who are here today, and he is deeply missed by all of us.
I want to at this time recognize his incredible wife, Maureen, who I got to know very well over the last short period of time. And, Maureen, please stand up. Thank you very much. (Applause.) Thank you and your family. Thank you. Thank you, Maureen.
Americans are blessed to have in Neil Gorsuch a man who will, likewise, be a devoted servant of the law. Over the past two months, the American people have gotten to know, respect and truly admire our newest member of the United States Supreme Court. In Justice Gorsuch, they see a man of great and unquestioned integrity. They see a man of unmatched qualifications. And most of all, and most importantly, they see a man who is deeply faithful to the Constitution of the United States. He will decide cases based not on his personal preferences, but based on a fair and objective reading of the law.
Today, we have all three branches of government represented at this event. It is a very special thing — and a very special happening. And it’s worth taking just a minute to remember what it all means.
In our Founders’ incredible wisdom, they gave each branch of government a different role in our Great Republic. We have a Congress to write the laws on behalf of the people. We have a President to enforce those laws and defend our nation. And we have a Supreme Court to apply and interpret the law, in a fair and impartial manner, when disagreements arise. The Founders separated power because they knew it was the best way to protect our citizens and keep our Constitution secure.
Justice Gorsuch, you are now entrusted with the sacred duty of defending our Constitution. Our country is counting on you to be wise, impartial and fair — to serve under our laws, not over them, and to safegaurd the right of the people to govern their own affairs. I have no doubt you will rise to the occasion and that the decisions you will make will not only protect our Constitution today, but for many generations of Americans to come.
In just a moment, Justice Gorsuch will be sworn in by Justice Kennedy, a great man of outstanding accomplishment. Throughout his nearly 30 years on the Supreme Court, Justice Kennedy has been praised by all for his dedicated and dignified service. We owe him an enormous debt of gratitude, and I am honored that he is with us today. (Applause.)
This is a very, very special moment, because many years ago a young Neil Gorsuch started his legal career as a law clerk to Justice Kennedy. You remember that, right? (Laughter.) It is a fitting testament to Justice Kennedy’s impact that, upon giving the oath to Justice Gorsuch, he will become the first ever Supreme Court justice to serve with one of his former law clerks. It’s sort of a big deal, isn’t it? (Applause.) Sort of like that. That’s sort of good. It has never happened before. That’s pretty good. Also shows you have a lot of respect for this man. Very good.
We’re thrilled to share this historic moment with Justice Kennedy, with all of you here today, and with all Americans watching us at home.
Justice Gorsuch, I again congratulate you and your entire family, and I wish God’s blessings on your amazing journey ahead. I have no doubt you will go down as one of the truly great justices in the history of the United States Supreme Court.
I now invite Justice Kennedy to say a few words. Thank you very much. (Applause.)