East Room
4:04 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much.  It is a great pleasure to welcome President Santos to the White House.  Colombia is one of our closest allies in the hemisphere, and today we reaffirm partnership between our two great nations.
President Santos and I had a very productive meeting, and we will continue to work very closely together to bring peace, safety and prosperity to the hemisphere.  Perhaps no area is really more important in terms of cooperation than our joint effort to end the terrible drug crimes that plague both of our countries.
Recently, we have seen an alarmed — and I mean really a very highly alarmed and alarming trend.  Last year, Colombia coca cultivation and cocaine production reached a record high, which, hopefully, will be remedied very quickly by the President.  We must confront this dangerous threat to our societies together.
Today, I affirmed the United States’ willingness to assist Colombia’s strategy to target and eliminate drug trafficking networks, illicit financings, coca cultivation, and cocaine production, of which there is far too much.  The drug epidemic is poisoning too many American lives, and we’re going to stop it many different ways.  One of them will be the wall.My administration is committed to keeping drugs and gangs from pouring into our country.  Already border crossings are down more than 73 percent.  Secretary Kelly is with us; he’s done a fantastic job.  Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.  And, in short, we have a tremendous group of people working with us in terms of ICE, the ICE Patrol and the Border Patrol agents.  They’ve done a fantastic job, and I’d like you to give them my highest compliments, Mr. Secretary.
And MS-13, likewise — a horrible, horrible, large group of gangs that have been let into our country over a fairly short period of time — are being decimated by the Border Patrol, by ICE, and by our incredible local police forces.  And they are getting out of our country, or, in some cases, going directly into prisons throughout our country.  But they’ve literally taken over towns and cities of the United States.  They will be gone very quickly.
I look forward to working with President Santos as we target drug trafficking.  Both the United States and Colombia have strong law enforcement and security relationship.  We’ve had it — and especially over the last fairly short period of time.  Together, we will continue to fight the criminal networks responsible for the deadly drug trade that our people have a really strong commitment to getting rid of, because they want a much brighter future.President Santos and I also discussed the deteriorating situation in Venezuela, and it is really in a very bad state, as you see and as we all see through the media.  The stable and peaceful Venezuela is in the best interest of the entire hemisphere, and America stands with all of the people in our great hemisphere yearning to be free.  We will be working with Colombia and other countries on the Venezuelan problem.  It is a very, very horrible problem.  And from a humanitarian standpoint, it is like nothing we’ve seen in quite a long time.
The United States and Colombia are also strong economic partners, and we will continue to pursue trade policies that benefit both of our peoples.  The nations’ common goals of protecting our citizens, expanding opportunity, and confronting the drug crisis will improve the lives of our people and many throughout the region.
So many people are being so horribly affected by what’s going on in terms of violence and in terms of drugs, and we’re going to take care of the situation.  And we’ve both agreed to take care of it strongly and quickly.
President Santos, it was an honor to meet with you and your entire group of representatives, very talented people indeed, who have been working with us and my representatives.  And I look forward to many more productive meetings, such as the one we just had.  I’d like to thank you very much for being at the White House, being our guest.  And I’d like to congratulate you on winning the Nobel Peace Prize.  That’s a very great achievement.  Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.  Does anybody have any questions?  (Laughter.)  I’m shocked.
Jon, go ahead.
Thank you.
Well, I respect the move, but the entire thing has been a witch hunt.  And there is no collusion between certainly myself and my campaign, but I can always speak for myself — and the Russians, zero.
I think it divides the country.  I think we have a very divided country because of that and many other things.  So I can tell you that we want to bring this great country of ours together, Jon.  And I will also say very strongly, we’ve had tremendous success.  You look at our job numbers, you look at what’s going on at the border, as we discussed before; if you look at what will be happening — you’re going to see some incredible numbers with respect to the success of General Mattis and others with the ISIS situation.  The numbers are staggering, how successful they’ve been, the military has been.
Tomorrow, as you know, I’m going to Saudi Arabia, going to Israel.  I’m going to Rome.  And we have the G7.  We have a lot of great things going on.
So I hate to see anything that divides.  I’m fine with whatever people want to do, but we have to get back to running this country really, really well.  We’ve made tremendous progress in the last 100-some-odd days.  Tremendous progress.  And you see job numbers, you see all of the production that’s starting.  Plants starting to open again.  Haven’t been open in years.  I’m very proud of it.  That’s what I want to be focused on.  Because, believe me, there’s no collusion.  Russia is fine.  But whether it’s Russia or anybody else, my total priority, believe me, is the United States of America.
So, thank you very much.
And on the issue of Venezuela, President Trump, many deaths, human rights violations.  There’s plenty to be done.
Well, that’s true.  Venezuela has a very, very serious problem.  We haven’t really seen a problem like that, I would say, Mr. President, in decades, in terms of the kind of violence that we’re witnessing.  The President was telling me — and I knew — that Venezuela was a very, very wealthy country, just about the wealthiest in your neck of the woods, and had tremendous strengths in so many different ways.  And now it’s poverty-stricken.  People don’t have enough to eat.  People have no food.  There’s great violence.  And we will do whatever is necessary — and we’ll work together to do whatever is necessary — to help with fixing that.  And I’m really talking on a humanitarian level.
When you look at the oil reserves that they have, when you look at the potential wealth that Venezuela has, you sort of have to wonder, why is that happening?  How is that possible?  But it’s been unbelievably poorly run for a long period of time.  And hopefully that will change, and they can use those assets for the good and to take care of their people.  Because right now what’s happening is, really, a disgrace to humanity.
And, Jon, I think you also had a question for the President, if you’d like to.Q    Does he have another one?
And that was a long and very diplomatic answer to your question.  I will say it a little bit shorter:  Walls work.  Just ask Israel.  They work.  Believe me, they work.  And we have no choice.
Peter Baker.  Yes.
And also as you look back —
No.  No.  Next question.
I think it’s totally ridiculous.  Everybody thinks so.  And again, we have to get back to working our country properly so that we can take care of the problems that we have.  We have plenty of problems.  We’ve done a fantastic job.  We have a tremendous group of people.  Millions and millions of people out there that are looking at what you had just said, and said, “What are they doing?”
Director Comey was very unpopular with most people.  I actually thought when I made that decision — and I also got a very, very strong recommendation, as you know, from the Deputy Attorney General, Rod Rosenstein.  But when I made that decision, I actually thought that it would be a bipartisan decision, because you look at all of the people on the Democratic side — not only the Republican side — they were saying such terrible things about Director Comey.Then he had the very poor performance on Wednesday.  That was a poor, poor performance.  So poor, in fact, that I believe — and you’d have to ask him, because I don’t like to speak for other people — but I believe that’s why the Deputy Attorney General went out and wrote his very, very strong letter.
And then, on top of that, after the Wednesday performance by Director Comey, you had a person come and have to readjust the record, which many people have never seen before, because there were misstatements made.  And I thought that was something that was terrible.
We need a great director of the FBI.  I cherish the FBI.  It’s special.  All over the world, no matter where you go, the FBI is special.  The FBI has not had that special reputation with what happened in the campaign, what happened with respect to the Clinton campaign, and even you could say — directly or indirectly — with respect to the much more successful Trump campaign.
We’re going to have a director who is going to be outstanding.  I’ll be announcing that director very soon, and I look forward to doing it.  I think the people in the FBI will be very, very thrilled.
And just in concluding, we look forward to getting this whole situation behind us so that when we go for the jobs, we go for the strong military, when we go for all of the things that we’ve been pushing so hard and so successfully, including healthcare — because Obamacare is collapsing.  It’s dead; it’s gone.  There’s nothing to compare anything to because we don’t have healthcare in this country.  You just look at what’s happening.  Aetna just pulled out.  Other insurance companies are pulling out.  We don’t have healthcare.  Obamacare is a fallacy.  It’s gone.  We need healthcare.
We need to cut taxes.  We’re going to cut taxes.  Forget what I want; it will be the biggest tax cut in the history of our nation.  And that’s what I want.  It’s going to bring back companies.  It’s going to bring back jobs.  We lost so many jobs and so many companies to countries that are not so far from you, Mr. President — they’re very close to you, actually — and to many other places throughout the world.  We’re going to change that.  We’re going to have expansion.
We already do.  You look at what’s happening with Ford and with General Motors in Michigan and Ohio.  You look at the tremendous number of jobs that are being announced in so many different fields.  That’s what I’m proud of, and that’s what we want to focus our energy on.The other is something I can only tell you:  There was no collusion.  And everybody — even my enemies have said, there is no collusion.
So we want to get back and keep on the track that we’re on.  Because the track that we’re on is record-setting, and that’s what we want to do, is we want to break very positive records.Thank you.
You could ask a question.
Well, it’s been a long process, and it’s been a great thing to watch in the sense that the President did a fantastic job.  That’s not easy after so many years of war.  So I’m very, very proud to get to know you, and I really congratulate you.  There’s nothing tougher than peace, and we want to make peace all over the world.  And you are really a great example of somebody that started it.
I mean, FARC is — that was a long, tough situation, as you know very well, coming from the country.  But I think the President has done a magnificent job.  Not easy.  But he’s done a magnificent job.
Thank you very much, everybody.  Thank you, thank you.
END4:36 P.M. EDT