East Room
2:21 P.M. EDT
Good afternoon, and thank you for all being here.  It’s my great honor to welcome His Highness the Emir of Kuwait to the White House.
The United States and Kuwait share a strong and enduring partnership.  We recently commenced [commemorated] the 27th day of remembrance of Saddam Hussein’s invasion of Kuwait, which we all remember so well.  The United States is proud to have contributed to the liberation of Kuwait and for the friendship we have built together in the years since.
Today, we reaffirm our commitment to our shared security interests and recognize Kuwait’s critical contributions to regional stability.  We also thank Kuwait for its humanitarian leadership and for its partnership in the fight to destroy ISIS.
During my trip to Saudi Arabia, I spoke to the leaders of more than 50 Arab and Muslim nations about the need to confront our shared enemies — murderous terror groups that threaten all civilized people.  Every responsible nation must work together to strip these groups of their territory, their financing, and the false allure of their evil ideology.
All right, we’ll take a couple of questions.  Go ahead.  Yes.
Actually, we’ll go to somebody else this time, John.  (Laughter.)  You’ve been doing enough, John.  Go ahead, CBS.
Military action would certainly be an option.  Is it inevitable?  Nothing is inevitable.  It would be great if something else could be worked out.  We would have to look at all of the details, all of the facts.  But we’ve had Presidents for 25 years now — they’ve been talking, talking, talking — and the day after an agreement is reached, new work begins in North Korea, continuation on nuclear.
So I would prefer not going the route of the military, but it’s something certainly that could happen.  Our military has never been stronger.  We are in a position now — and you know the new orders.  You see the new numbers just like I see the new numbers.  It’s been tens of billions of dollars more in investment.  And each day new equipment is delivered — new and beautiful equipment, the best in the world, the best anywhere in the world, by far.
Hopefully we’re not going to have to use it on North Korea.  If we do use it on North Korea, it will be a very sad day for North Korea.
Do you have a question for the Emir?
We’re going to see what it is.  I don’t negotiate with you —
No, I’m not negotiating with you.  Maybe we’ll have a chance to negotiate with somebody else, but I don’t put my negotiations on the table.  Unlike past administrations, I don’t talk about them.  But I can tell you that North Korea is behaving badly, and it’s got to stop.
Okay, a question for the Emir?
EMIR AL-SABAH:  (As interpreted.)  We hope — we still have hope that the dispute will be resolved between Qatar and its neighborly countries in the GCC.  Especially that our friends in the U.S. and our other friends are assisting us in resolving this issue, I am optimistic that the solution will come in the very near future, God willing.
Question for the — yes, for the Emir first, yes.
(As interpreted.)  Do you support the Kuwaiti mediation role between Qatar and the four countries?  And do you support the holding of a conference that will include all parties in Kuwait?  Thank you.
While I do appreciate and respect the mediation, I would be willing to be the mediator.  I was telling the Emir before that if I can help between UAE and Saudi Arabia, where I have a very great relationship — I spoke with the King yesterday, King Salman, who is a friend of mine, and we spoke on unrelated subjects, but we had a long conversation.  If I can help mediate between Qatar and, in particular, the UAE and Saudi Arabia, I would be willing to do so.  And I think you’d have a deal worked out very quickly.
I think it’s something that’s going to get solved fairly easily.  Kuwait has been really the leader of getting it solved, and we appreciate that very much.  But I do believe that we’ll solve it.  If we don’t solve it, I will be a mediator right here in the White House.  We’ll come together.  Very quickly, I think, we’ll have something solved.
EMIR AL-SABAH:  (As interpreted.)  Thank you.  And you have heard now what His Excellency, the President, has said about the relations between Kuwait and the U.S., and its assertion of its commitment to the security of Kuwait.  And this is not something new.
And don’t forget that the United States has managed with its other allies when Kuwait was occupied; it liberated Kuwait from Iraq within a few months.  And this is something that the Kuwaiti people remember very well and everybody also.  And we here thank the United States and the American people for that.
Go ahead.
And if I may, sir, the U.N. has just published a report about Syria’s Assad regime using chemical weapons.  They said they basically used it more than two dozen times.  Does that mean that President Assad is immune now from any prosecution?  And what can you do to stop the further use of chemical weapons?  Thank you.
Well, first of all, the Palestinians and the Israelis — we are discussing, we are working.  They say it is the world’s most complex and difficult deal.  You know that.  But it is something that could happen.  I believe that the relationships that we have with both can help.  It’s an event that’s just never taken place.  Sometimes people think they’re close and it never happens, or it never happens successfully.
I think we have a chance of doing it.  I think the Palestinians would like to see it happen.  I think the Israelis would like to see it happen.  And usually when you have two groups that would like to see something happen, good things can happen.
So I think there is a chance that there could be peace.  But again, I say that a little bit reluctantly.  We’re going to give it our best.  We have tremendous talent working on that particular transaction.  As you know, David Friedman, the ambassador, is very much involved.  We have a great group of people.  We’ll see what happens.
As far as the chemical weapons, I find it hard to believe that after what we did the last time, that Assad would do that again.  I haven’t heard what you just said, but I find that a little bit difficult to believe.  But nothing would change.  We would be extremely upset if he was using chemical weapons.
As far as Syria is concerned, we have very little to do with Syria other than killing ISIS.  What we do is we kill ISIS.  And we have succeeded in that respect.  We have done better in eight months of my presidency than the previous eight years against ISIS.  So ISIS is rapidly disappearing, as you know, and that’s because of our great military.  The military has been absolutely incredible in terms of what they’ve done with ISIS in Iraq and in Syria.
Do you have a question for the Emir?
EMIR AL-SABAH:  (As interpreted.)  The hope has not ended yet.  I would like to affirm that Qatar is ready to meet all the demands that were put — the 13 demands that were presented, and is ready to sit at the table to negotiate and to discuss with us all everything related to the dispute between the parties — the Gulf parties.
As you know, we have 13 demands that were presented, and we know that not all of these 13 demands are acceptable.  But if we were to sit down together and discuss these 13 demands — and we have indeed accepted them, and Qatar has accepted them — we would be able to resolve all 13 demands — all the issues and points that harm and relate to the dispute between the countries of the region and anything that harms the interests of our other friends.
Thank you.
This all began because of the fact that there has been massive funding of terrorism by certain countries.  And what I want is I want to stop the funding of terrorism, and we’re going to stop the funding of terrorism.  And if they don’t stop the funding of terrorism, I don’t want them to come together.  But I think they will.
You have a question?
EMIR AL-SABAH:  (As interpreted.)  First of all, I would like to say, there is no problem that cannot be resolved.  True, it’s complicated, but when we meet around one table — and now we have an affirmation from the country to which some demands were presented by its brotherly nations in the Gulf region when we hear that it’s ready to discuss all these demands.  We are not among those countries, but we are guarantors, and we can guarantee that we will pressure Qatar because it’s not in the interest of Qatar to remain outside the flock.  Rather, it should join its brothers in the GCC.
As you know, thank God, the wisdom of our brothers in the Gulf region — they should appreciate the situation we are in today — the situation in Syria and Iraq, and in Syria and in Libya.  Now is the time that we have to forget all these differences.  It’s true we have descended into some not very healthy issues, especially in the media, but in spite of all of that, we were one of the most people to be affected by this situation by what our brothers in Qatar have done.
But when that happened, and before this dispute came into existence, we met with our brothers in Qatar and put an end to this issue.  And this is now a normal issue.  We met in Riyadh, in the presence of President Trump, and there was no one to say that there was a dispute between us.  But suddenly, this dispute came into existence.  Thank God, now, what is important is that we have stopped any military action.
And these disputes, as I said, they are complicated.  And we have seen the media campaign that is totally unacceptable to the people because the media coming out of this country is against the people, not the rulers.  And for that reasons, we have received from Qatar a letter in response to the letter I sent them, and they are willing to sit down at the table and discuss all these demands, which the other parties have put down.
And we’re talking about 13 demands, and I’m certain that all these certain demands, some of them — a great part of them will be resolved and the other part — and perhaps, we might not accept them because anything that effects sovereignty we would not accept.
But we are very hopeful.  We have great hope in our friends in the U.S. that they will assist them to restore things to where they used to be.
Well, that is a problem that we will get resolved, and I’m very, very honored and happy to know that you have problems with the media also.  (Laughter.)
Thank you everybody.  Thank you very much.
END2:51 P.M. EDT