Rose Garden
2:51 P.M. EDT
President Iohannis, thank you for being here.  It’s an honor to welcome such a good friend of America to the White House.
As you know, the people of Romania and America share much in common — a love of freedom, proud cultures, rich traditions, and a vast and storied landscape to call home.  The relationship between our two countries stretches back well over a century.  But today we especially reaffirm and celebrate our strategic partnership that began 20 years ago next month.  That partnership covers many dimensions, including economic, military, and cultural ties.  And today we are making those ties even stronger.
Mr. President, your visit comes at an important moment not just in this partnership, but among all of the responsible nations of the world.  I have just returned from a historic trip to Europe and the Middle East, where I worked to strengthen our alliances, forge new friendships, and unite all civilized peoples in the fight against terrorism.  No civilized nation can tolerate this violence, or allow this wicked ideology to spread on its shores.
I addressed a summit of more than 50 Arab and Muslim leaders — a unique meeting in the history of nations — where key players in the region agreed to stop supporting terrorism,   whether it be financial, military or even moral support.
The nation of Qatar, unfortunately, has historically been a funder of terrorism at a very high level, and in the wake of that conference, nations came together and spoke to me about confronting Qatar over its behavior.  So we had a decision to make:  Do we take the easy road, or do we finally take a hard but necessary action?  We have to stop the funding of terrorism.  I decided, along with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, our great generals and military people, the time had come to call on Qatar to end its funding — they have to end that funding — and its extremist ideology in terms of funding.
I want to call on all other nations to stop immediately supporting terrorism.  Stop teaching people to kill other people. Stop filling their minds with hate and intolerance.  I won’t name other countries, but we are not done solving the problem, but we will solve that problem.  Have no choice.
This is my great priority because it is my first duty as President to keep our people safe.  Defeating ISIS and other terror organizations is something I have emphasized all during my campaign and right up until the present.  To do that, stop funding, stop teaching hate, and stop the killing.
For Qatar, we want you back among the unity of responsible nations.  We ask Qatar, and other nations in the region to do more and do it faster.
I want to thank Saudi Arabia, and my friend, King Salman, and all of the countries who participated in that very historic summit.  It was truly historic.  There has never been anything like it before and perhaps there never will be again.  Hopefully, it will be the beginning of the end of funding terrorism.  It will, therefore, be the beginning of the end to terrorism.  No more funding.
I also want to thank the Romanian people for everything they contribute to our common defense and to the fight against the evil menace of terrorism.  They have their own difficulties with it, and they’ve come a long way and they’re doing a lot.  Romania has been a valuable member of the coalition to defeat ISIS, and it’s the fourth-largest contributor of troops in Afghanistan. There, 23 of your citizens have paid the ultimate price.  And America honors their sacrifice.
I want to recognize President Iohannis for his leadership in committing Romania this year to increase its defense spending from 1.4 percent of GDP to over 2 percent.  We hope our other NATO allies will follow Romania’s lead on meeting their financial obligations and paying their fair share for the cost of defense. But I will say this, that because of our actions, money is starting to pour into NATO.  The money is starting to pour in.  Other countries are starting to realize that it’s time to pay up, and they’re doing that.  Very proud of that fact.
As you know, I have been an advocate for strengthening our NATO Alliance through greater responsibility and burden-sharing among member nations.  And that is what is happening.  Because, together, we can confront the common security challenges facing the world.
Mr. President, I want to applaud your courage and your courageous efforts in Romania to fight corruption and defend the rule of law.  This work is necessary to create an environment where trade and commerce can flourish and where citizens can prosper.  I look forward to working with you to deepen the ties of both commerce and culture between our two countries.
Romanians have made many contributions to the United States, and to the world.  Very notable among them was Nobel Prize laureate Elie Wiesel, who was born in Romania and, sadly, passed away almost one year ago.  And I understand that earlier this week, the American Jewish Committee presented President Iohannis with its very prestigious Light Unto the Nations Award, for his work to further Holocaust remembrance and education in Romania.  I join the AJC in saluting your leadership in that vital cause.
The people of Romania have endured many, many hardships, but they have made a truly remarkable, historical journey.  The future of Romania and Romania’s relationship with the United States is very, very bright.
President Iohannis, I thank you for your leadership, and I thank you again for being here today.  I look forward to strengthening our alliance with your country and our bonds with your people.  The relationship has been good, but now it’s stronger than ever.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Dave Boyer, Washington Times.  Dave.  Come on, Dave.
That’s all right, Dave.
Well, I’ll tell you about that maybe sometime in the very near future.  But in the meantime, no collusion, no obstruction.  He’s a leaker.  But we want to get back to running our great country — jobs.  Trade deficits, we want them to disappear fast.  North Korea, a big problem.  Middle East, a big problem.  So that’s what I am focused on.  That’s what I have been focused on.
But yesterday showed no collusion, no obstruction.  We are doing really well.  That was an excuse by the Democrats who lost an election that some people think they shouldn’t have lost, because it’s almost impossible for the Democrats to lose the Electoral College, as you know.  We have to run up the whole East Coast and you have to win everything as a Republican.  And that’s just what we did.
So it was just an excuse.  But we were very, very happy.  And frankly, James Comey confirmed a lot of what I said.  And some of the things that he said just weren’t true.
Thank you very much.
Do you have a question?
One hundred percent correct.  And you know, one of the things I was referring to during that speech was the fact that, yes, they haven’t paid what they should be paying now, but for many years, they haven’t been paying.  So I said, do we ever go back and say, how about paying the money from many, many years passed?
Now, I know no President has ever asked that question.  But I do.  And we’re going to make NATO very strong.  We need the money to make it strong.  You can’t just do what we’ve been doing in the past.  So I did say, yes, you haven’t paid this year, but what about the past years, the many past years where you haven’t paid?  Perhaps you should pay some or all of that money back.
You have a question?
Thank you very much.
Well, I’m committing the United States, and have committed, but I’m committing the United States to Article 5.  And certainly we are there to protect.  And that’s one of the reasons that I want people to make sure we have a very, very strong force by paying the kind of money necessary to have that force.  But, yes, absolutely, I’d be committed to Article 5.
We didn’t discuss it —
We didn’t discuss it.  But there would be certainly — it would be something we will discuss.
Mr. President.
Good.
Look at those hands up there, President.  Do you have this in Romania, too?  I don’t know.  (Laughter.)  I’ve got the microphone.  If I could only sell that.  If I could only sell it.
Who would like to ask — should I take one of the killer networks that treat me so badly as fake news?  Should I do that?
Go ahead, Jon.  Be fair, Jon.
Remember how nice you used to be before I ran?  Such a nice man.
I didn’t say that.
Well, I didn’t say that.  I mean, I will tell you I didn’t say that.
And there would be nothing wrong if I did say it, according to everybody that I’ve read today.  But I did not say that.
No, he did not.
One hundred percent.  I didn’t say under oath — I hardly know the man.  I’m not going to say, I want you to pledge allegiance.  Who would do that?  Who would ask a man to pledge allegiance under oath?  I mean, think of it.  I hardly know the man.  It doesn’t make sense.  No, I didn’t say that, and I didn’t say the other.
I would be glad to tell him exactly what I just told you, Jon.
I’m not hinting anything.  I’ll tell you about it over a very short period of time.
Okay.  Do you have a question here?
Over a fairly short period of time.
Oh, you’re going to be very disappointed when you hear the answer.  Don’t worry.
Jon, do you have a question for the President?
Well, we support very strongly Romania.  And therefore, obviously we do support that fight on anticorruption.  We will always support that.  And we support your President.  We think he’s done an outstanding job.  Very popular, very solid, working very hard.  We know everything that’s going on.  And, yeah, and he’s going to win that fight.  He’s going to win that battle.  But he has our support.
Well, you do.  But I can tell you that there are many American investors right now going to Romania and investing.  In fact, I was given a chart just before our meeting, and we have people going over to Romania and investing, and they weren’t doing that a number of years ago.  So that shows very, very big progress.  And there really are a lot of congratulations in store.  But a lot of people are investing from our country to yours.
And people love — from Romania — the United States.  And they come here a lot, and we’re very proud of them.
Thank you all very much.
END3:18 P.M. EDT