Roosevelt Room
11:24 A.M. EDT
Well, thank you very much for being here. It’s a great honor, very great honor. I want to thank Vice President Pence, Secretary Tom Price, and Administrator Seema Verma — who’s done an incredible job, by the way — for all of the time and energy they’ve put into repairing and replacing Obamacare ahead of tomorrow’s crucial vote. Big vote tomorrow in the House.
I want to especially thank Seema, the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services –a wonderful job she’s doing, and definitely a complex job, but you have it under control, right — for hosting this very important meeting to discuss the vital role women play in healthcare and the hardships inflicted on them by the Obamacare catastrophe. It’s been bad.
Administrator Seema Verma is playing the leading role for us in helping us to repeal and replace Obamacare. The doctors, nurses and healthcare professionals here today represent the millions of women — millions and millions — who play a vital and indispensable role in Americans’ healthcare. Unfortunately, Obamacare is making their lives so much more difficult, as we all know, and putting enormous barriers in the way of helping patients who we are going to help. We’re going to get this thing done. We’re going to get it figured out. It’s a tough situation our country has been put in. It’s not easy.
Women doctors and healthcare leaders have changed the face of healthcare in America, saving and improving countless American lives. In 1965, only 9 percent of accepted medical school applicants were women — 9 percent. Last year, nearly 50 percent of newly accepted applicants were women. Congratulations. Good job. It’s a good job. Thirty-eight percent of physicians and surgeons are women, and that number will continue to grow. That’s a big victory for our society, big victory for America.
I want to also thank all of the women nurses and healthcare aides for their incredible service and dedication to our country. What you do is remarkable. Unfortunately, Obamacare is making it much harder for all of the doctors, nurses and healthcare professionals, men and women alike, to do their job. As insurers flee Obamacare’s broken marketplace — and it is broken, it’s broken badly; the insurance companies are fleeing — millions of patients can no longer access the healthcare professionals the know and trust. In other words, “keep your doctor, keep your plan” didn’t work out that way. You don’t get your doctor, you don’t get your plan.
So that is one of the more vital reasons why we must repeal Obamacare. It’s one of the reasons why we’re here today.
So with that, I want to turn it over to Administrator Verma, and we’ll start a meeting.
Thank you very much. You could probably do — stay for this little while, and then we’ll clear out the room and talk, okay? Go ahead.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
END11:30 A.M. EDT