Roosevelt Room12:15 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much.  Today I am pleased to welcome President Abbas to the White House for his first visit to Washington in quite a while.
Almost 24 years ago, it was on these grounds that President Abbas stood with a courageous peacemaker, then-Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin.  Here at the White House, President Abbas signed a Declaration of Principles — very important — which laid the foundation for peace between the Israelis and Palestinians.The President — Mr. President, you signed your name to the first Israeli-Palestinian peace agreement.  You remember that well, right?  And I want to support you in being the Palestinian leader who signs his name to the final and most important peace agreement that brings safety, stability, and prosperity to both peoples and to the region.
I’m committed to working with Israel and the Palestinians to reach an agreement.  But any agreement cannot be imposed by the United States, or by any other nation.  The Palestinians and Israelis must work together to reach an agreement that allows both peoples to live, worship, and thrive and prosper in peace.  And I will do whatever is necessary to facilitate the agreement — to mediate, to arbitrate anything they’d like to do.  But I would love to be a mediator or an arbitrator or a facilitator.  And we will get this done.
Peace also means defeating ISIS and other terrorist groups.  These groups are a threat to all people who cherish human life.  I know President Abbas has spoken out against ISIS and other terrorist groups, and we must continue to build our partnership with the Palestinian security forces to counter and defeat terrorism.I also applaud the Palestinian Authority’s continued security coordination with Israel.  They get along unbelievably well.  I had meetings, and at these meetings I was actually very impressed and somewhat surprised at how well they get along.  They work together beautifully.  But there cannot be lasting peace unless the Palestinian leaders speak in a unified voice against incitement to violate — and violence and hate.  There’s such hatred.  But hopefully there won’t be such hatred for very long.  All children of God must be taught to value and respect human life, and condemn all of those who target the innocent.
As part of our efforts to move forward toward peace today, we will also discuss my administration’s effort to help unlock the potential of the Palestinian people through new economic opportunities.
Lastly, I want to note the positive ongoing partnership between the United States and the Palestinians on a range of issues — private sector development and job creation, regional security, counterterrorism, and the rule of law — all of which are essential to moving forward toward peace.
I welcome President Abbas here today as a demonstration of that partnership, that very special partnership that we all need to make it all work.  And I look forward to welcoming him back as a great marker of progress and, ultimately, toward the signing of a document with the Israelis and with Israel toward peace.  We want to create peace between Israel and the Palestinians.  We will get it done.  We will be working so hard to get it done.  It’s been a long time, but we will be working diligently.  And I think there’s a very, very good chance, and I think you feel the same way.
Mr. President, thank you very much.
So we’re going to start a process.  We’ve spoken to Bibi Netanyahu.  We’ve spoken to many of the great Israeli leaders.  We’ve spoken with many of your great representatives.  Many of them are here today for lunch with us.  We’ll start a process which hopefully will lead to peace.  Over the course of my lifetime, I’ve always heard that perhaps the toughest deal to make is the deal between the Israelis and the Palestinians.  Let’s see if we can prove them wrong.Okay?
Good.  Thank you.  Thank you very much, everybody.  Thank you.
END12:30 P.M. EDT