Roosevelt Room
1:07 P.M. EDT
That’s a lot of press.  Really, a lot of press.  I’m shocked.
It is a pleasure to welcome President Erdogan for his first visit to the White House in years.  The American and Turkish peoples have been friends and allies for many, many decades.
Turkey was a pillar in the Cold War against communism. It was a bastion against Soviet expansion.  And Turkish courage in war is legendary.  That is so true.
Turkish soldiers fought bravely alongside of American soldiers in the Korean War, and we haven’t forgotten what they did.  In some ways, when we looked at their great bravery in the fight of Korea — and in Korea, it was just something that our soldiers and our great generals still remember.  Supreme Commander General Douglas MacArthur singled out and praised the exemplary valor of the Turkish soldier — said, some of the great soldiers of the world.
Today we face a new enemy in the fight against terrorism, and again we seek to face this threat together.  The Turkish people have faced horrible terrorist attacks in recent years and even recently.  We offer our compassion to the victims, and we offer our support to the Turkish nation.
We support Turkey in the first fight against terror and terror groups like ISIS and the PKK, and ensure they have no safe quarter, the terror groups.  We also appreciate Turkey’s leadership in seeking an end to the horrific killing in Syria. The Syrian civil war shocks the conscience of the whole world.  And all you have to do is look in the front page of the papers today and you’ll see exactly what we’re talking about.  We also support any effort that can be used to reduce the violence in Syria and create the conditions for a peaceful resolution.
President Erdogan and I are also discussing the need to reinvigorate our trade and commercial ties.  These are areas where we can build our relationship that will benefit both of our countries.  Military equipment was ordered by Turkey and the President, and we’ve made sure that it gets there quickly.
I look forward to working together with President Erdogan on achieving peace and security in the Middle East, on confronting the shared threats, and on working toward a future of dignity and safety for all of our people.
Mr. President, thank you for visiting our country and joining us today at the White House.  It is a great honor to have you with us.  Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you all very much.  Appreciate it.  We’re going to go to meetings now.
Well, we had a very, very successful meeting with the Foreign Minister of Russia.  Our fight is against ISIS, as General McMaster said.  I thought he said, and I know he feels, that we had actually a great meeting with the Foreign Minister.
So we’re going to have a lot of great success over the next coming years, and we want to get as many to help fight terrorism as possible.  And that’s one of the beautiful things that’s happening with Turkey.  The relationship that we have together will be unbeatable.
So thank you all very much.  I appreciate it.  We’re going to meetings right now.  Thank you.
END1:20 P.M. EDT

*The Department of State offers an updated English translation for this portion of President Erdogan’s remarks:“There is no place for the terrorist organizations in the future of our region.  Particularly, taking YPG/PYD terrorist organization as an interlocutor in the region, regardless of whichever country it is, is definitely inconsistent with the agreement that had been reached at a global level.  Likewise, we should not allow those who want to change the religious and ethnic structure of the region by using actions of terrorist organizations as an excuse.”